Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported vanadium oxides are more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalyst design for efficient alkane oxidative dehydrogenation involves isolating active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, influenced by the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst reduction rate, is crucial for selectivity. In the synthesis of maleic anhydride, the rate of Vw reduction controls the first step of oxidative dehydrogenation, while the amount of Vv available governs the second step of further oxidation. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is necessary for selectivity in n-butane oxidation, with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing the best performance. The P:V ratio significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. The preparation procedures and crystalline phases of vanadium phosphorus oxides also affect catalytic performance, with p-VOP04 being less stable and more prone to transformation at high temperatures, leading to a loss of catalytic performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. The metal species dehydrogenates alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to the coordination environment. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are reactive towards heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and its molecular structures, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species are reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly influence the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support does. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease and surface BrCnsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. The reactivity properties of supported vanadia catalysts are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes through their active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing these catalysts and conditions enhances efficiency, yielding higher product selectivity. Their industrial value lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods can extend catalyst life, improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affect alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratios, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives, enhancing performance. Low-temperature treatment and surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced two molybdenum species: tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate, with higher loadings (>1.3 wt.%) leading to decreased dispersion and channel blocking. A second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower conversion but higher selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in efficiency. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts for higher hydrocarbons conversion have been demonstrated. Methane aromatization to benzene over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites has been achieved. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis to Brnsted acid sites playing a critical role in selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation, involving a reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and the complex's acetylacetonate ligands, yields highly dispersed MoO42species. The catalyst's specific activity boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO, crucial for converting methane, a major component of natural gas, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, due to interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates its activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. The catalyst's performance is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkane conversion, notably methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, is a focal point in catalytic research. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Alkane to aromatic conversion isn't fully selective, yielding light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium as the preferred element for selective oxidation (Quote 1). The isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix is essential (Quote 2). Product stability, multifunctionality (Quotes 5, 6), C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone (Quote 7). These factors are critical for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions to aromatics. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity and methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, demonstrating the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, without producing Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity, particularly in the production of valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes, where there's a need for higher product selectivity and longer catalyst life. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples of catalysts used for producing CH3OH, HCHO, and converting methane to aromatics. Catalyst efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-H's dehydrogenation is rate-controlled, while ZSM-5-Zn's is in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Radical-chain reactions on ZSM-5-H are speculative, but electron transfer and radical generation in high silica zeolites are known. Different aromatization mechanisms explain the varied behavior. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium can be reduced to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, and exhibits similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio indicating these rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal species, notably Ga and Zn, in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformation rates by facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, as seen in propane dehydrocyclodimerization. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, thus enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels boosts aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, contributing to industrial significance by improving yields of desired products and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations acting as alkyl group acceptors. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. Studies report 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts shows selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others affect it negatively. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' introduction changes zeolite acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization are significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on fully covered oxide surfaces, especially with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface species being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, particularly those containing Mo or Zn, can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, favoring selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature and number vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These factors are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation, by efficiently activating CH bonds, a critical step in both industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without altering the reaction's overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and their activity is significantly enhanced when part of the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. XRD patterns confirm Fe(III) incorporation into the framework, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts supported on silica exhibit higher selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from the isolation of active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering a promising strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size and dopant effects influencing catalytic properties and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the P:V ratio control selectivity and activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps are influenced by V oxidation states, with high Vv content leading to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating dehydrogenation and H/D exchange, crucial for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, leading to efficient alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, leading to the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing cationic species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability on oxide supports, like A1203, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb205, and CeO2, is crucial for industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the oxidation state, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing only one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, while those requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. Optimizing these elements enhances yield and selectivity, making light alkanes more valuable under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Reaction selectivity and rates are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities showing the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface densities lead to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects ODH reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam addition, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous impregnation followed by ammonia washing, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. Higher Mo loading promotes polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels, which are more reactive in methane activation but yield low formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, demonstrating the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This highlights the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced performance through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. Their ability to catalyze under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The catalyst's preparation involves washing, drying, and calcining to yield [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, key in fuel and organic synthesis, is scientifically and industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields isolated MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence. XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites. The new catalyst, with its specific MoO42activity, outperforms impregnated catalysts in formaldehyde yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. These barriers may be reduced by considering more complex reactions, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, or by involving a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, particularly for propane adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5. This conversion, central to processes converting light gases to BTX aromatics, isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 catalysts enhance BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. These factors are essential for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity, facilitating methane activation and increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The CH bond activation and propene production are influenced by the catalyst's composition and structure. Single-crystal V2O5(001) demonstrates that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but an efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation with propene release. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively oxidize inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing the global demand for these products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms. Zinc-modified catalysts exhibit strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium-modified ones show weak adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species. These differences affect hydrocarbon conversions, particularly dehydrogenation, influencing efficiency and selectivity. The industrial value of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn enhances BTX formation due to hydrogen depletion. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures, are active but less selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics compared to reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Pretreatments influence ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatic yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting propene formation and aromatic turnover while reducing cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, yielding higher desired product yields and minimizing by-products, making these catalysts industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol is a studied alternative to the conventional process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. A study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane oxidation to formaldehyde shows selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports affect aromatics and carbonaceous deposits' formation. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity on silica-supported small clusters. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their multifunctionality and industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These findings highlight the role of vanadium species and acid sites in optimizing catalytic performance for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is crucial in both industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites, and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformation efficiency. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures but diminishes at higher ones due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, featuring spherulitic aggregates and characteristic XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at monolayer active phase loading. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, influences selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds reduce activity. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Catalyst surface dynamics and surface-induced modifications are key to understanding selectivity-controlling properties. The conversion from alkane to maleic anhydride involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation of this intermediate. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences reaction mechanisms. The P:V ratio is a critical parameter for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. The mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated in the products being higher in the but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkane conversion to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium to olefin formation, suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin dehydrocyclization yields aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates CH bond breakage and formation, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites. Zn-alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted site action boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, promoting ethane dehydrogenation. Stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ in dimers aids H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feeds increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as evidenced by increased dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolites. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the behavior of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence their reactivity. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while noninteracting additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives impact the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, but activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ga/ZSM-5, upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity compared to HZSM-5. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting the morphology and reduction of V5+; the P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; and the presence of additives, impacting oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varying efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion based on their composition and structure. Two series were tested: the first, prepared by conventional impregnation, produced tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. Polymolybdates, dominant at Mo loadings above 1.3 wt.%, reduce dispersion and block HZSM-5 channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting treated catalysts which, despite lower methane conversion, achieve higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric Mo=O sites' specificity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in catalyst efficiency. While literature lacks specifics on how catalyst composition and conditions affect alkane transformations, the success of Fe-ZSM-5 in aromatic hydroxylation suggests promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation is critical, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing its activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation method, support, promotors, and conditions, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. Studies at high temperatures and vanadium loadings reveal the importance of phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis sites being stronger in the order Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After grafting and calcination, the catalyst features highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, crucial for converting methane, the primary component of natural gas, into methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, due to interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating successful grafting. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's isolated MoO42species enhance formaldehyde production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers are larger than those experimentally observed for supported vanadia, suggesting that more complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, could lower them. Propane adsorption barrier reduction appears to require a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with ZSM-5 being pivotal in aromatization processes. This conversion, while not completely selective, yields BTX components alongside light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are favored due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures, affecting catalyst performance. The catalytic conversion of methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a significant area of research, with higher alkanes convertible without co-reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, altering the mechanism of alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation [1]. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix [2] and product stability [3] are critical. Multifunctionality [4] serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation [5-6], though insufficient alone [7]. C-H bond activation [8] and acidity/basicity [9] also impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemical products and fuels is a significant challenge and opportunity in catalysis science. Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These findings highlight the importance of metal cations in improving ZSM-5's catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane, demonstrating the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. Gallium, however, weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, and are crucial for industrial alkane transformations to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes, where they aim to achieve higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate efficiency in producing desired products. Their performance is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, the presence of additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn has this step in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the paraffin-generating hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, akin to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes and cycloalkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments significantly affect ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, enhance alkane transformations by increasing dehydrogenation rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization. These species facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase propene and aromatic formation rates while decreasing cracking. Their role as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption boosts H2 formation and improves efficiency, contributing to industrial significance by boosting desired product yields and reducing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with alkane dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the first step (67.6 kcal mol-1).", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic performance. Acid sites alteration by Mo species and second metal addition impacts zeolite's activity. Methane activation mode and heavy carbonaceous deposit formation are major challenges in reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities, stabilizing isolated centers over larger crystallites. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is a fundamental step in these processes. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide on silica is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), play a critical role in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are key: higher values increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for understanding its catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, while optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, corresponding to monolayer structures. The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is lower than stoichiometric reduction. The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends on alkane/O2 ratios. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene. Using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the oxide support. Catalysts made of vanadium oxide supported on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania. The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be affected by binary dispersed structures. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. The order of increasing selectivities to propylene follows the order of increasing basicity and MO bond energy. The isolation of active sites is crucial for efficient catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increase with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties. Basic oxides inhibit initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting mechanisms and efficiency. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, dependent on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst's oxidation/reduction rates, controls selectivity. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are critical. Two reaction steps are identified: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, influenced by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, plays a crucial role in reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The PVO system exhibits rich intercalation chemistry, affecting catalytic performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, influencing the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites, effectively convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn and Ga act as portholes, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In confined spaces of zeolites, spectroscopy and theory interplay to develop these relationships. Isolated mononuclear GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination and reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The reactivity of these species is predominantly associated with the dehydrated V(5+) form, with the bridging V-O-support bond playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting the turnover frequency (TOF). Noninteracting metal oxide additives can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly affect the mechanisms and efficiency of these transformations. Their industrial importance lies in the ability to convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed structural characterization and kinetic analysis reveal that two-dimensional poly-vanadates form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed at low vanadia surface densities. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with propene formation being more favorable than ethene. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, crucial for processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are key in alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratios stabilizing (VO)P207; additives altering oxidizability; and activation conditions. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformations, as seen in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two preparation methods were tested: conventional impregnation yielding polymolybdate species for higher Mo loadings, which decreases dispersion and blocks zeolite channels; and impregnation followed by ammonia washing, creating a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-ZSM-5 proceeds with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the catalyst's efficiency. Factors influencing this efficiency include the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. Progress in this area could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to benzene and naphthalene via dehydrocondensation on transition metal-supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation is critical, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions enhancing activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization, though coke formation is a challenge. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed in catalytic beds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, correlating with phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have mechanisms influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors contribute to the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, which are significant in the petrochemical industry. The catalysts' ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits enhanced catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the presence of highly dispersed MoO42species, achieved by reacting the complex with surface OH groups, avoiding water to prevent MoO3 aggregation. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the weakness of the CH bond due to zeolite surface interaction, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influencing CO selectivity. The specific activity of isolated MoO42species greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are notably higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and support involvement for vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar. Aromatization, particularly to BTX components, is not fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, crucial for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. The regioselectivity is attributed to two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism for H/D exchange, highlighting the impact of Zn modification on reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity influence efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding but is insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination yield propylene and dihydrogen, with the latter participating in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions to aromatize. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and fuels, using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo or Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield with increasing methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 is facilitated by a carbenium ion mechanism, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure, particularly the distinction between terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, influence CH bond activation. While both radical and oxo-insertion pathways are viable at the terminal O site, only the oxo-insertion mechanism works at the bridging O site. Propoxide's weaker binding at the bridging O facilitates easier propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, preventing propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively, demonstrating how these factors impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with cracking as a concurrent reaction. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They catalyze H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen, and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. These species boost H2 formation and propene production by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking turnover. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by improving reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations' mechanisms and efficiency. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkanes' aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at low methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformation efficiency, as seen in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo species' valence and location affecting catalytic activity. Metal loading influences reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperatures impact performance. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and pre-treatments, greatly influence catalytic efficiency. Acid sites' alteration by Mo species and second metals affects zeolite activity. Methane activation's mechanism remains debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a challenge for process development. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, are crucial for selective alkane transformations, especially for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities due to its stabilization of isolated centers. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially relevant, catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization of methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion into ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms (Quote 2, 3). Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products (Quote 4). Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation on those with tetrahedral V5+ species (Quote 6). Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brnsted at high vanadium loadings, also vary (Quote 7). These factors are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without altering the reaction's overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity to oxygenates. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Structural details, including spherulitic aggregates and Fe(III) framework incorporation, are critical for understanding the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency and selectivity of these catalysts are influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of vanadium reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with optimal reactivity at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their redox properties, which modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The dynamics of the catalyst surface state and its modifications are crucial for understanding selectivity. Alkane transformations to maleic anhydride involve a two-step mechanism: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, followed by further oxidation controlled by Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's synthesis variables, such as solvent type, affect crystallinity and defect structure, influencing catalytic performance. The P:V ratio is key, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The PVO system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic performance. A single-site mechanism is supported for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Different kinetic behaviors between alkenes and alkanes suggest distinct catalyst surface effects, with Vv phosphate acting as the oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond cleavage. Zn species interact with alkanes inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that promote dehydrogenation and H/D exchange. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization, with Zn influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces' reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in hydrocarbon oxidation, with the latter being critical for reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of reactions is reaction-specific and influenced by additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances transformation efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities. The rate per V atom increases with surface density, even as V atoms become less available for catalysis. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH and combustion are similar, showing weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion in gasoline products. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction (Q1, Q7); P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207 (Q10); morphology, impacting oxidizability (Q12); and additives, preventing overoxidation (Q15). A slight excess of phosphorus optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity (Q22).", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high molybdenum loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties. This promising direction could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Studies reveal the sequence of transition metal activity as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, improves efficiency. Indirect processes, involving synthesis gas production and Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, and direct routes to ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics are explored. Oxidative coupling of methane, a direct conversion alternative, has been extensively researched. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts yields benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes using supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Surface oxygen species interaction likely initiates the CH bond splitting in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are also investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation techniques, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from concentrated feeds, achieving high temperatures. Studies highlight the importance of vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields optimal propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, influence the nature of active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into more valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, when interacting with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafted catalyst yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and XRD analyses confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, indicating successful grafting. The catalyst's performance is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, with CO selectivity influenced by surface covering.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. These barriers may be reduced by considering more complex reactions, such as those involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, or by using a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, which appears necessary for lowering adsorption barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as Oleflex. This conversion, while not completely selective, forms light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at high temperatures. Higher alkanes can undergo conversion without co-reactants, and the catalytic conversion of methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a significant area of research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification induces regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality alone is insufficient. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts' industrial significance lies in converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts is a promising approach for natural gas utilization, presenting a significant catalysis challenge. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for methane conversion at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism suggests the activation pathway. Enhanced catalytic activity and improved dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the latter being more conducive to propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane polarizability, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium leads to gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate the influence of pretreatment, temperature, metal state, and feed composition on efficiency and selectivity. These factors are critical in designing catalysts for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Initial propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Radical-chain reactions on ZSM-5-H are speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with hydrogen generation on ZSM-5-Zn versus hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing conversion rates and H2 formation. In processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization, the rate is limited by dehydrogenation steps leading to various unsaturated hydrocarbons. Ga and Zn species facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen and allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This increases aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking rates. These metal species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Consequently, they increase propene formation and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation processes. A study on ethane dehydrogenation in a zinc-exchanged zeolite identified two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen reveals formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits impact catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during reaction is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. The conversion involves metalalkyl intermediates and complex mechanisms. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. VO4 tetrahedra are observed at low V loadings, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting industrial significance through selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, a critical step in both industrial and enzymatic processes, is enhanced by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, with the second abstraction possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. These findings highlight the critical role of catalyst composition and reaction conditions in controlling the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties are critical. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes depend on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. A deeper understanding of surface modifications and their impact on catalytic behavior can enhance selectivity. In alkane to maleic anhydride conversion, the P:V ratio and vanadium states (Vw and Vv) control the reaction's two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including phase interconversion, is crucial for catalytic performance. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The vanadium phosphorus oxides dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. The PVO system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability, such as the difference between a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn's promoting effect on H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes enhances reaction rates and lowers activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond cleavage, forming Zn-alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for enhanced aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to the need for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are highly reactive, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition enhances dehydrogenation activity by increasing the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with surface Lewis acid sites decreasing and surface BrCnsted acid sites increasing upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being pivotal. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable aromatics and isomers. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia with varying surface densities was studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed structural characterization and kinetic analysis reveal that distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures are prevalent at low surface densities, while two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher densities. The rate per V atom increases with surface density, even as V atoms become less available for catalysis. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction extent. A P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, while certain additives prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; high molybdenum loading decreased dispersion and blocked zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but reduced formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics with dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with Mo showing superior activity. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve catalyst stability. Zeolite micropore modification and the interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species are critical for CH bond splitting. Direct and indirect methane conversion routes exist, the latter involving synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane and catalysts like PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based zeolites facilitate aromatization, with studies noting the importance of preparation and treatment methods. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts enable methane activation and transformation into higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, and vanadium loadings, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with a high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. Studies on vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings reveal correlations between phase composition, coordination, reducibility, dispersion, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The reaction between the complex and zeolite surface OH groups yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The CH bond weakness, caused by zeolite surface interaction, initiates methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state slightly lowers these barriers. More complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, could further reduce barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing transformation independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity in aromatization is partial, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences the mechanism and efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms for regioselectivity are: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolite changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium, as a preferred element, facilitates selective oxidation, while the isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix is essential. Product stability and multifunctionality, including C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity, significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are critical for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The reaction equilibrium shifts toward propylene formation due to recombinative hydrogen desorption. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions demonstrates high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, enhancing dehydrogenation and aromatization. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. The carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in the efficient conversion of methane to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly influence the efficiency of these processes. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site offering easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's high activity hinders propene release, indicating the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for an efficient catalyst. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation studies reveal two distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in activation mechanisms directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity, particularly in the production of valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. There's a need for catalysts that offer higher selectivity and longer life, crucial for industrial methane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts are as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These species facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and boost H2 formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom disposal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Ga and Zn species increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting aromatic turnover rates. This selective H-atom removal contributes to high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, enhancing industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such zeolites revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation to alkenes is the initial aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These catalysts' industrial significance stems from their ability to enhance selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Our study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen reveals that formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are pivotal. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting the reaction mechanism. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development. The Mo species' role in the reaction pathway is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species as active sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing a variety of metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites' nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects catalytic performance, with Lewis sites dominant at low loadings and both Lewis and Brnsted sites present at high loadings, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, with Fe(III) in framework sites, and reaction conditions critically determine the reaction pathways and product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    