Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Catalysts with isolated active sites, like VOx-SBA-15, are highly efficient. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface are crucial for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. In the transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride, the process involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation. The rate of Vw reduction controls the first step, while the amount of Vv available governs the second step. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's redox properties depend on preparation procedures, with the P:V ratio being a key parameter for catalyst selectivity and activity. Selectivity increases with higher phosphorus loading, while specific activity decreases. The PVO system exhibits rich intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is crucial, with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing conversion is controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at acid sites, with Zn or Ga catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating CH bond breakage. Zn influences alkane activation through adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form during alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, leading to structure-activity relationships. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by surface coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopy. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments, with insights provided by in situ Raman spectroscopy. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure, and the specific oxide support phase does not influence the local structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia species formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with the bridging V-O-support bond associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes into valuable products like aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with density for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is obtained at intermediate surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at maximum temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam addition, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives, enhancing performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, and another by impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulting in a well-dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species, predominant at higher molybdenum loading, decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels (Quote 3). These species are more reactive in methane activation but lead to low formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). In contrast, treated catalysts show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over these zeolites achieves nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their efficiency. Factors influencing this efficiency include the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. Progress in this area could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between transition metals and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts produces benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions supported HZSM-5 under non-oxidative conditions transform methane to benzene. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. The addition of a second metal component enhances activity. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, forming isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies focus on high-temperature and high-vanadium-loading conditions, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation, involving a reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and the complex's acetylacetonate ligands, yields highly dispersed MoO42species in oxidation state VI. The catalyst's structure, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, shows MoO42species on the surface, with XRD spectra indicating no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's efficiency in MPO is attributed to its specific activity, leading to improved formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers a promising approach for alkane transformations, addressing the weakness of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. Barriers range from 45-80 kcal/mol, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may reduce some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing conversion without co-reactants. Catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butane to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, influences alkane transformations by changing the mechanism of activation and transformation, favoring hydrogen removal. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, leading to regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. The modification of zeolite with Zn alters the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation (1). Isolating vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix is critical (2). Product stability, multifunctionality (5), C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms (6), yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts play a crucial role in propane activation, with the initial step involving dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites lead to propylene and dihydrogen formation, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can further oligomerize, cyclize, and aromatize, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressure, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation and dehydrogenation. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. For instance, single-crystal V2O5(001) activates the CH bond of propane via terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, but its high activity at the terminal O site hinders propene release, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, enhancing the selectivity and efficiency of dehydrogenation reactions, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes, where there's a demand for higher product selectivity and longer catalyst life. Specific catalysts like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate efficiency influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the type of support and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom increase with VOx density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are also support-independent. These findings elucidate how catalyst composition, structure, and conditions impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity leads to higher BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium can reduce to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts, though active, are less selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes effectively at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these. Pretreatments impact ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not solely consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This boosts propene formation and aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Sequential H-atom release limits reaction rates on H-ZSM5, affecting selectivity. Ga and Zn species increase H2 formation via recombinative desorption, enabling efficient H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking and enhancing desired product yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such zeolites revealed two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, affected by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions interacting with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are crucial. Certain metals like Ru and Pt improve reactivity, while V and Li reduce it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting reaction pathways. Methane activation remains debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering process development. Understanding Mo species' real status and role is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation's optimal temperature is narrow, around 500 C, to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation, forming propene via adjacent VO species. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization of methane. M-zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity but peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species dominate at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species are prevalent at higher loadings. Catalysts with tetrahedral V5+ species offer higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations. Spherulitic aggregates and XRD patterns confirm Fe(III) framework incorporation. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with low iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit different speeds for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency and selectivity of these catalysts are influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of vanadium reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 and V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. The size of MoOx domains influences Mo O strength, with stronger bonds exhibiting lower activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst surface, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and dynamics control selectivity, with vanadium's valence state influenced by feed redox potential, oxidation, and reduction rates. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps are crucial in alkane to maleic anhydride conversion, with Vw reduction and Vv availability governing the process. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's complex chemistry, including phase interconversion, affects catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and P:V ratios enhance selectivity and activity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is a key active phase. Oxygen concentration determines single-site mechanisms for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, forming intermediates that facilitate dehydrogenation and aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, leading to the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing cationic species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to the need for optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The presence of isolated surface vanadia species on silica supports enhances stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes into valuable products like aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. This ratio decreases with temperature for both reactants. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects showed inconsistencies, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. Detailed kinetic analysis of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadia/alumina with a wide surface density range was reported, contrasting results with propane. This analysis, combined with structural characterization, relates local structure to rate constants. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ga/ZSM-5's enhanced dehydrogenation activity, compared to HZSM-5, is due to the formation of reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions upon oxidation. Water promotes the creation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the energy required for hydrogen recombination. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced two molybdenum species: tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favored polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. A second series, treated with ammonia, yielded a dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. For benzene oxidation to phenol, these catalysts achieve nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies, despite limited literature on how catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions affect mechanisms and efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Methane's direct transformation to methanol and formaldehyde has been investigated. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. Studies focus on the nature and properties of vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances formaldehyde yield compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, key components for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods, is scientifically and industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species after calcination. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the interaction between zeolite surface OH groups and acetylacetonate ligands, leading to isolated oxo species. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature, with CO selectivity linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the involvement of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with processes like Oleflex and Cyclar employing ZSM-5 catalysts for BTX production. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are favored for their stability at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix and multifunctionality, as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, are crucial. However, multifunctionality alone is insufficient. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity also impact efficiency. These factors are essential for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts is a promising approach for natural gas utilization, presenting a significant challenge in catalysis science. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 is studied under non-oxidizing conditions, revealing improved catalytic activity due to metal cation addition. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling efficient conversion to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's overactivity, preventing propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, resulting in ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial significance of these catalysts is in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite demonstrate effectiveness in producing CH3OH, HCHO, and converting methane to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom increase with VOx density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Oxidative dehydrogenation and secondary propene oxidation rates do not depend on support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Radical-chain initiation on ZSM-5-H is speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species. Different behavior between catalysts originates from distinct aromatization mechanisms, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H generating paraffins. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 allows gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes, 1-hexene, and cyclohexene at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by overcoming limitations in dehydrogenation reactions, leading to C6 aromatics. These species increase propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, facilitating hydrogen disposal as dihydrogen (H2). They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal. This boosts propene formation and H2 extraction with high selectivity, improving efficiency and industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the initial step in aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are notable. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. This study highlights the importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, emphasizing efficiency and mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Our study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane to formaldehyde conversion using molecular oxygen shows formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits are key. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing but selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites' nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the mechanisms and applications of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: increased values raise methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The performance of supported metal oxide catalysts is influenced by the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 leads to a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Catalysts supported on silica show higher selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. The basicity of the support and the MO bond energy correlate with increasing selectivities to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, but the reactivity of surface Mo species increases with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants influence the electronic and catalytic properties of MoOx domains, inhibiting the reduction of MoOx and slowing CH bond activation steps, leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, followed by further oxidation controlled by the amount of Vv available. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, significantly influences the reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is complex, with the active site, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics playing crucial roles. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio affects catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. This leads to alkane dehydrogenation and the formation of aromatic molecules, demonstrating Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces' reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing catalysis relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity in high-silica zeolites are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Binuclear gallium-oxo species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight metal-based catalysts' industrial importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is stable under various conditions and ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reduction state and molecular structure of surface vanadia species are crucial for understanding their reactivity during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction, and the stability of the V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the isolated nature of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence the local structure. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V2O5 powders have both surface Brønsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Brønsted acid sites. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the specific oxide support affects the TOF, with a general trend inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic or basic oxides, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives can affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and reaction conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect reaction rates and selectivity. Previous studies show inconsistencies due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and homogeneous reactions at high temperatures. Detailed kinetic analysis reveals that two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, impacting catalytic activity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The activation energy for alkene combustion increases with vanadia surface density, affecting selectivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are achieved on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Catalysts transform over time, with initial stages being more active but less selective. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly affect alkane transformations. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, forming tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, yielding a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. High Mo loading (over 1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's chemical composition, and the oxidant's specific features. This process offers promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, affecting active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component can boost activity or stability. Surface oxygen species likely split the CH bond in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation, support, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic properties. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings produce VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K. Studies at high vanadium loadings reveal the importance of phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion for catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity crucial for catalytic activity. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis sites being stronger in order Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly influence alkane transformations. This catalyst, after washing, drying, and calcination, shows enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, is scientifically and industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's structure and composition offer potential for efficient catalysis in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, with barriers of 45-80 kcal/mol. These barriers may be reduced by complex reactions, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The need for a support in vanadium oxide catalysts to reduce barriers like propane adsorption is highlighted, demonstrating factors influencing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, a process receiving significant attention. Higher alkanes like C&/C, can undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in the regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion from another propane molecule; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. The modification of zeolite with Zn changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium ions isolated in a quasi-inert matrix enhancing selectivity. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, highlighting their potential for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. This dehydrogenation and aromatization process, facilitated by a carbenium ion mechanism, showcases the catalyst's improved activity and industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the efficiency of these processes. A study on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the bridging O site facilitates easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal as a catalyst because the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with dissociation at high temperatures producing ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity, particularly in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition, highlighting the importance of these factors in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes, 1-hexene, and cyclohexene at 500-600C. Gallium's dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by overcoming limitations in dehydrogenation reactions, crucial for forming C6 aromatics. These species increase propane conversion rates and H2 formation via recombinative desorption of H-atoms, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. This results in higher yields of desired products like propene, reduced by-product formation, and valuable H2 extraction with high selectivity, contributing to industrial significance in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The preferred mechanism involves the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group after the ethane CH bond rupture, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The alternative carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen showed formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal, affecting catalytic performance (Quote [3]). Various pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly impact catalytic activity (Quote [6]). Understanding the real status of Mo species during reactions and its role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory (Quote [11]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates best at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction, is pivotal. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings, with the former achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions despite lower activity. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects selectivity and activity, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with faster propene formation on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are rate-determining, but VOSi sites can also participate without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show higher activity than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst supports, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affect selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being the most selective. The addition of metal oxides as additives can modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. For instance, alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The design of efficient catalysts benefits from the isolation of active sites, as demonstrated by the VOx-SBA-15 system, which offers a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based catalysts, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density, up to a maximum of 4.5 Mo/nm2. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence selectivity and activity. The Vw reduction rate controls the first oxidative dehydrogenation step, while the Vv amount governs the second oxidation step. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including crystalline phases and P:V ratio, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, but decreases specific activity. The PVO system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V:V ratio and surface oxygen concentration determine the mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, leading to the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, acidity, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to coverage, while those needing multiple sites are. Interacting additives influence all reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, with acidic and basic additives affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their industrial importance lies in the ability to convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures to avoid homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reaction rates. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affect alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically in methane to formaldehyde conversion. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, the latter predominant at high molybdenum loadings, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with aqueous ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are effective, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been investigated. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites promote methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal introduction into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The acidity, with Lewis to Brnsted sites ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, is vital for alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process, involving the reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and the complex's basic acetylacetonate ligands, yields highly dispersed MoO42species. The catalyst's efficiency in MPO is attributed to the specific activity of these isolated species, improving formaldehyde yield. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The CH bond weakness, caused by methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra show high dispersion without MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leading to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to alkenes and aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as Oleflex. Conversion isn't selective, forming light alkenes alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Higher alkanes can be converted without co-reactants, and the conversion of methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons has received significant attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, like Zn/H-MFI zeolite, significantly impact efficiency. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit different kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial applications of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. The addition of metal cations enhances ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's overactivity in propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. Conversely, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity, particularly in the production of valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations like methane conversion to aromatics and CH3OH/HCHO production. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. Developing catalysts with higher selectivity and longer life remains a priority, highlighting their industrial significance in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition and structure affect alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity changes with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local concentration, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase propene formation by deactivating acid sites. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to their industrial significance in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Two distinct routes for ethane activation were identified: the first involves alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second starts with carbenium activation. The dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes is the initial step in aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with the rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The alternative carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the first step (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, impacted by metal loading, as demonstrated over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The Mo-zeolite interaction and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are pivotal for catalytic activity. Metal loading affects reactivity and stability, with preparation methods and calcination temperature influencing performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic efficiency. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over HZSM-5 is crucial. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition impact zeolite activity. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a challenge for process development. The Mo species' status and role in methane chemistry are significant for theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C with silica as the ideal support. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface species' terminal oxo groups being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo- and Zn-containing ones, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at high loading, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is a critical step in these processes. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide on silica is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, and methanol production is favored at lower temperatures before further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring Fe(III) in framework sites, is confirmed by XRD patterns, and the sodium form accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For vanadium oxide catalysts, activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with optimal performance at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is determined by the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The first step of oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by Vw reduction, while the second step, further oxidation, is controlled by the availability of Vv. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing conversion is debated. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond activation occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. H atom desorption shifts equilibrium to olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, favoring ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates CH bond breakage and formation, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted site action boosts aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for catalytic performance optimization. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, fostering structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing species' stability and reactivity are influenced by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination in dimers enhance H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, as evidenced by increased Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity upon water co-feeding. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports and species polymerization. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with vanadia coverage, with their role in reactions requiring further study. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. Reactions requiring one surface site show TOF independence of vanadia coverage, while those needing multiple sites are sensitive to coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing key roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. The ratio of alkene combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation decreases with temperature for both reactants. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects showed inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadia/alumina with a wide surface density range was reported, contrasting propane results. This analysis, combined with structural characterization, revealed the local structure's influence on reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have been reported with inconsistencies, influenced by structural characterization and kinetic analysis limitations. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites appear, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam addition. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen can impact performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Nonequilibrated catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated ones have stable V4+. These factors are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, influence methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with the latter predominant at high molybdenum loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-treated catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, particularly the oxidation of benzene to phenol, achieves nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond split in methane is attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed on alumina support at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are significant in petrochemical processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Their ability to catalyze under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, play a critical role in alkane conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process, involving reactive acid hydroxyl groups and basic acetylacetonate ligands, yields highly dispersed MoO42molybdenum(VI) species. The catalyst's structure and composition were confirmed through UV diffuse reflectance spectra, XPS analysis, and XRD spectra, indicating the absence of MoO3 aggregates. The new catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers potential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat lowered by considering a triplet state. These barriers, though high, can be reduced by complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatization processes, converting light gases to BTX aromatics using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Two mechanisms contribute to regioselective H/D exchange in propane: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride from another propane molecule, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit different kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored in selective alkane oxidation, enhances efficiency when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explainer, yet it's insufficient alone. Product stability, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity also impact efficiency. These factors are pivotal for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, producing propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes and cyclizes, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are crucial for alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. The presence of Mo or Zn in ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. The incorporation of metal cations into ZSM-5 improves catalytic activity, facilitating dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling efficient conversion of methane to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's overactivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct pathways: strong ethane adsorption by Zn21 and basic oxygen sites leads to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while weak adsorption on Ga1 cations results in ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. The zinc case produces Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation, contrasting with gallium dihydride species formation in the gallium case, without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions involving dehydrogenation, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Higher hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn channels enhances BTX formation at increased space velocity. Aromatics and olefins adsorption on ZSM-5-Zn involves electron transfer, generating radicals. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn produces hydrogen, unlike the paraffin-generating hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures, are active but less selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, influencing aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H2 formation through recombinative desorption of H-atoms from dehydrogenation steps, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. They increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. This boosts yields of desired products and reduces by-products, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts revealed two activation routes: one through alkyl activation of a CH bond and another via carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with the ethane CH bond rupture, with the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group, and the computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as reported in studies over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. Metal-zeolite interactions and Mo species' role in forming aromatics and carbon deposits are pivotal. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization are significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO active sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Notably, Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, favoring selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature also varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental to these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. The Si/Fe molar ratio and the catalyst's form (sodium or hydrogen) influence efficiency. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form of Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal performance at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity and reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx structure and electronic properties, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalysts' efficiency is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed affect the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is crucial, depending on the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and its reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, with the P:V ratio affecting selectivity and activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is a key parameter, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces impact reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to coordination optimization (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are stable and reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. The presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds affects reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, converting them into valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with low surface density and isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density shows the highest initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with higher molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) favoring polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, specifically in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the properties of dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant. These factors are crucial for the development of efficient technologies in organic synthesis, particularly in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, affecting active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Efforts to suppress CO and CO2 formation by transforming methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen have been made. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component's addition enhances activity or stability. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on alumina surfaces are influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is highly exothermic, reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, along with reaction conditions, significantly influence selectivity and conversion of alkanes. Industrially, these catalysts are vital for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After washing, drying, and calcination, the catalyst yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation is crucial due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into more valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde, key in fuel and synthetic organic methods. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat lowered by considering a triplet state. These barriers, ranging 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, are larger than experimentally observed for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may reduce some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the significance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using metal-based catalysts, with processes like catalytic dehydrogenation central to converting propane and butane to alkenes and aromatics, especially BTX. ZSM-5 catalysts are key in these transformations. Selectivity in converting light alkanes to aromatics is not complete, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation ([1]). The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix ([2]) and product stability ([3]) enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality ([4]) aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, though not sufficient alone. C-H bond activation type ([8]) and acidity/basicity ([9]) also significantly impact process efficiency, crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. These catalysts' composition and structure, along with reaction conditions, are crucial for the dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane, highlighting their industrial importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the efficiency of these processes. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate CH bonds, with the oxo-insertion mechanism being more favorable at the bridging O site for propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton generation. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are crucial for industrial processes converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior vary with support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn has this step in quasi-equilibrium. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, particularly for propane. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can revert to Ga+ with hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates can aromatize specific aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation versus hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity as a key indicator. Pretreatments significantly impact catalyst performance in ethane dehydrogenation. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium in zeolites, but the most active catalysts for aromatics production do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These species facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover rates, and decrease cracking turnover rates. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. This results in higher yields of desired products like propene and reduced by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by enhancing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Zn-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. In ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl group acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the loading of metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance catalytic reactivity and stability. Channel structure, acidity, and metal valence affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic behavior. Understanding Mo species' role and overcoming carbonaceous deposit challenges are key for methane chemistry and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing a wide range of metals, efficiently convert alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites playing a key role in the rate-determining step. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadia sites integrated into the bulk surface are more active than monomers on silica, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the highest efficiency observed in the catalyst with the lowest iron content. Sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form of Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    