Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom occur on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced during steady-state alkane oxidation. Higher surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene. Catalyst performance depends on the support material, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina- and titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, and isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous materials is promising. Maintaining structure and stability in catalysts with high vanadium content is challenging. VOx-SBA-15, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, is a high-performing catalyst in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation and reduction rates at the reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio significantly affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The first step of oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second step is governed by the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. More oxidizable catalysts show higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, plays a crucial role in the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting the type of products formed.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, facilitating alkane CH bond breakage. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds, leading to the formation of aromatic molecules.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their stability, crucial for long catalyst life, is attributed to the surface vanadia monolayer's resilience under reducing and reaction environments. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, featuring terminal V=O and bridging V-O-support bonds, are influenced by net pH and surface point of zero charge. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in H2 and CO environments. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer on oxide supports like Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb2O5, and CeO2 ensures industrial catalyst longevity. Surface acidity and preparation methods impact reactivity, with the number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions dependent on the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing one surface vanadia site are insensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives, whereas reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to these factors. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and acidic and basic additives influence selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is driven by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, with optimized conditions enhancing yields and selectivity. Novel regeneration techniques combat deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and boosting industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, with ethene and propene formation rates peaking at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites catalyzes alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion. Oxidation forms reactive GaO+ ions, boosting dehydrogenation. Steam stabilizes GaO+, and water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, avoiding V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species. At high loading, polymolybdate species cause decreased dispersion and channel blocking, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, with efficiency influenced by the zeolite's catalytic activity, iron's role, the matrix's composition, and the oxidant's characteristics. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-ZSM-5 demonstrates nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting potential for efficient organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Activity is enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts efficiency. Methane conversion routes include indirect synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, and direct ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics production. Oxidative coupling of methane has been extensively studied. Methane activates over multi-component catalysts to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5, with Mo, W, Fe, V, Cr showing varying activities. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Optimal propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 zeolites enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions significantly affect active species and performance. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) surpasses classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto dried HZSM-5 and subsequent calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. Unlike aqueous impregnation, which results in MoO3 aggregates, this process leads to isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. Efficiency is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on these factors. The interaction between the complex and surface OH groups facilitates the formation of highly dispersed oxo species, crucial for the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show that vanadium oxide presents high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, which are notably reduced by the support, crucial for adsorption and efficiency enhancement in catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatization processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes yields alkenes alongside BTX, lacking complete selectivity. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, acting as a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are key in alkane transformations, with vanadium's selective oxidation ability (Quote 1) enhanced when isolated (Quote 2). Efficiency hinges on product stability (Quote 3), multifunctional catalyst properties (Quote 4), type of C-H bond activation (Quote 8), and acidity/basicity, illustrating complex catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, and dehydrogenate it to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Efficiency is affected by reactant partial pressure. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in non-oxidizing conditions for methane conversion to benzene at 973 K, with Mo or Zn enhancing methane activation. Benzene yield rises with increasing methane partial pressure, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in selective methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms play a role in CH bond activation on V2O5(001), with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is too active for propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts distinctly activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Gallium, however, exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid proton creation. These mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, impacting efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. Catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite enhance selectivity and longevity in methane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) varies with vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities peak with increasing VOx surface density, as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates are optimal on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization occur, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatic adsorption on ZSM-5-Zn involves electron transfer and radical generation, differing from ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Hydrogen generation during aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn contrasts with paraffin generation over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and space velocity. Radical-chain reactions and electron transfer processes are speculated to occur on high silica zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, when ion-exchanged, reduce to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites (Quote 2). Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures (Quote 3). For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ (Quote 4). The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affect the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen. They prevent cracking by removing H-atoms from acid sites, increasing propene and aromatic yields, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. Alkane aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate ethane CH bond rupture, acting as alkyl group acceptors. Activation energies for key steps highlight mechanism efficiency, with carbenium activation being less favorable due to a high barrier. These catalysts enhance zeolite selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Direct oxidation of methane to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising but challenging route for fuel conversion. Metal oxide dispersion on catalysts significantly impacts behavior and efficiency, with studies showing 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity are dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Research on W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveals formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Efficiency is optimized through catalyst modification and reaction condition adjustments. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity is critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, while others have opposite effects. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly influence performance. The introduction of Mo species changes zeolite acid sites, impacting methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate with various proposed mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits pose a challenge for understanding and process development, while the real status of Mo species during reactions is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, featuring isolated VO species, boost selectivity in alkane transformations, notably for alkenes like propene, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where terminal oxo species of VV are the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), especially Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkane to alkene and aromatic conversions via multifunctional catalysis, involving CH bond activation and metalalkyl intermediate formation. These zeolites can coaromatize methane and alkanes, with some directly converting methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings; octahedral species show higher activity but lower selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions compared to tetrahedral species. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is critical in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance. Supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites influence the efficiency of alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates, achieving optimal methanol selectivity at lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) framework incorporation, affects reaction mechanisms. Fe-NaZSM-5 favors faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation, exhibit efficiency influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, correlating with optimal olefin selectivity at monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is single-site under high surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, enhancing H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates, and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates reversible CH bond formation and cleavage, forming intermediates with alkanes. Zn-alkyl species on Zn-modified zeolites boost aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted acid sites, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation and promoting dehydrogenation and subsequent aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes in high-silica zeolites enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations boost heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Reduced basicity and stable coordination facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing pivotal roles. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions boosting efficiency. Novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, enhancing industrial application by prolonging operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit varying performance in ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by surface density and structure. Propene formation rates are notably higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, achieve the highest alkene yields. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities, with the highest alkene selectivity observed at low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. Supported vanadia domains' local structure profoundly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity, requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios for high alkene yields.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two preparation methods were identified: conventional impregnation leading to tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and impregnation followed by ammonia washing, yielding well-dispersed monomeric species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for phenol. Efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, making them significant in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including methane conversion to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolites enhance catalytic activity, as revealed by TPO/XPS/FT-IR/EXAFS and solid NMR studies. Oxygen is crucial for deep methane oxidation, but researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Catalysts like Mo/HZSM-5, with added Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu, are effective. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina surfaces form isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings yield VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites enhances catalytic activity in the order HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, affecting efficiency. Reaction conditions impact active species and performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances alkane transformation efficiency. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by interaction with the zeolite surface, activates the transformation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm MoO42species presence, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's specific activity boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, highlighting its industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit reduced energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by adopting a triplet state and through complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The support's role is pivotal in lowering these barriers, significantly enhancing the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 is favored for its stability at reaction temperatures, preventing zinc volatilization. Selectivity challenges persist due to concurrent formation of light alkenes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, acting as a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, excelling in selective oxidation due to vanadium's isolation in a quasi-inert matrix. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's not the sole determinant. The type of C-H bond activation and the equilibrium between acidity and basicity are also critical, significantly affecting the industrial viability of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Catalyst efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Mo and Zn enhance catalytic activity and methane activation, with higher methane pressure increasing benzene yield. The carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations due to their high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, converting alkanes to olefins. The balance between CH bond activation and propene release is key, as shown by propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001), where both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance these factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting hydrocarbon conversions. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride species. These activation differences directly influence reaction efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is optimized by understanding how FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite influence CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are enhanced by controlling pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, forming earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn, with aromatization generating hydrogen. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts at 550C are more active and selective, generating a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, with the dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels significantly impacting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. This form of Ga3+ is stable under typical ethane dehydrogenation conditions but can be reduced by hydrogen, indicating its role in the production of aromatics from ethane.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via alkyl activation of a CH bond or carbenium activation. The alkyl activation route, with lower activation energies, is more efficient. Alkanes aromatize through initial dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Carbenium activation is less favored due to a high activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation to formaldehyde demonstrate selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through interactions between metal ions and zeolite supports. Mo species in HZSM-5 play a pivotal role in catalytic performance, with certain metals enhancing reactivity and stability. Preparation methods and calcination temperature are critical factors. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with changes in acid sites upon introduction of Mo and a second metal. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose challenges for reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing various metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases and selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower vanadium loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, whereas higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. The presence of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites varies with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These factors are critical for optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial in industrial and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models, with hydrogen abstraction primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites playing a secondary role. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than monomers on silica, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol production occurs at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Longer contact times and higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. The highest methane conversion is achieved with the largest iron content, and the highest selectivity of methane to methanol oxidation is attained with the lowest iron content.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, influencing product formation. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is controlled by vanadium's valence state. The P:V ratio significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a specific ratio. Surface oxygen concentration and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction are pivotal for selective conversion to maleic anhydride. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn enhances H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species, leading to Zn alkyl species formation. Synergetic action between Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly affecting alkane CH bond activation by acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can degrade clusters, reducing reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are essential for understanding their reactivity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in reducing environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species, and the molecular structures of these reduced species can be determined using various spectroscopic techniques. Preparation methods do not significantly influence the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The specific structure or modification of the oxide support does not affect the local structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 crystalline powders have both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species on oxide supports decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases the number of surface Br0nsted acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties of supported vanadia catalysts are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a hydrocarbon oxidation reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on active sites, acidity, and pore structure, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields. Novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending operational life. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, converting them into valuable products, underscoring their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts show varying oxidative dehydrogenation rates for ethane and propane, influenced by surface density and structure. Propene formation is eight times faster than ethene at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. The highest alkene selectivity is achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates are maximized at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require low vanadia surface density and high reaction temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enabling processes like alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with GaO+ ions formed by Ga+ species oxidation in ZSM-5, enhanced by steam. Ga/ZSM-5 exhibits superior dehydrogenation activity over HZSM-5, facilitated by water-promoted formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, which lowers hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair of Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology, (001) plane exposure, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species, dominant at >1.3 wt.% Mo, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels, leading to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity. The other series featured a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase with tetrahedral monomeric species, showing lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion in the oxidation of benzene to phenol. This highlights iron's role and the significance of zeolite matrix composition in catalyst efficiency, using dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant, which demonstrates potential for efficient organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied to improve catalytic efficiency. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates strategies to minimize CO and CO2 by transforming methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and mechanisms. Direct conversion routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect processes rely on synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Oxidative coupling of methane offers an alternative direct conversion route since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane for benzene and carbonaceous deposit formation. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, with Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals introduced into HZSM-5 cavities, such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, enhance acidity and catalytic activity, significantly affecting alkane selectivity and conversion. Reaction conditions impact active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel Mo/HZSM-5 catalyst, synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, excels in methane partial oxidation (MPO), outperforming traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation, avoiding water, yields highly dispersed MoO42species, critical for formaldehyde selectivity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the catalyst's structure and Mo(VI) state. The mechanism involves methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond. The new catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield, attributed to isolated MoO42species' activity. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influence CO selectivity, impacting the catalyst's efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide catalysts face higher energy barriers in oxidative dehydrogenation, impacting efficiency. However, using a support can lower these barriers, as evidenced in complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination, enhancing the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane conversion to aromatics and alkenes, targeting BTX production, employs ZSM-5 catalysts. Zinc-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, boosting BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are favored due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. Conversions are not fully selective, with light alkenes forming as intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Zn2+ in Zn/H-MFI zeolites enhances efficiency by acting as strong Lewis sites, altering activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites show distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating industrial significance by suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, excel in selective oxidation and require isolation in a quasi-inert matrix. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Vanadium's role and these factors are critical for industrial applications, as they influence catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene then undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization, influenced by pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process efficiently converts light alkanes to aromatics, critical petrochemical feedstocks, showcasing the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and increases benzene yield with methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal lattice O atoms' role in CH bond activation, with bridging O sites favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts play a critical role in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts enable strong ethane adsorption, heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation leading to ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct activation mechanisms significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in selective alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, using FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, boosts selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes are significantly influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn, moving the equilibrium towards BTX. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by pretreatments, affecting aromatization and dehydrogenation. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. Acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, they facilitate dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This boosts efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking turnover, leading to higher yields of propene and reduced by-products, thus enhancing industrial significance through improved reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, with ethane activation proceeding via alkyl or carbenium activation, facilitated by zinc cations. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as Banares et al. demonstrated 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts shows formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, especially Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite, are critical for alkane transformations. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo's valence and location, are key for catalytic activity. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P reduce it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures significantly affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly impact efficiency. Acid site changes due to Mo and second metal addition alter reaction pathways, affecting methane activation and carbonaceous deposit formation, hindering process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze multifunctional reactions including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and alkyl intermediate formation, converting alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica surfaces playing a key role. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with vanadyl sites crucial in the rate-determining step. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane conversion and methanol selectivity, is influenced by iron content, catalyst form, and reaction conditions. Higher iron content in Fe-HZSM-5 boosts methane conversion to 31.51%, while sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Methanol selectivity peaks with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is optimal at 350°C, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Methanol production and oxidation to carbon dioxide vary with catalyst form, being faster with Fe-NaZSM-5 than Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts in propane ODH show increased activity with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loadings. Binary dispersed structures and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, affecting the catalyst's surface oxidation state and product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio significantly impact selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio, with a sweet spot at 1.1, influences selectivity and activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is enhanced by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Oxygen balances in the oxidation of but-1-ene and n-butane reveal that Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion, highlighting the difference in reactivity between hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metals dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species interact with zeolite acid sites, providing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for catalytic optimization. Zeolites' confined spaces enhance reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, essential for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Surface vanadia species can reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface vanadia sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, notably active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, improving yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities influence ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) rates and selectivity. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. A slight excess of phosphorus optimizes the balance between reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by preparation methods. Conventional impregnation yields monomeric and polymolybdate Mo species, with high loading decreasing dispersion and blocking channels. Ammonia washing results in well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving nearly 100% conversion of benzene to phenol. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, indicating potential for advanced organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's conversion to benzene and naphthalene, with synergetic effects enhancing activity. Oxygen use leads to deep oxidation, prompting strategies to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is an effective catalyst, with added Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu improving activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification boosts efficiency. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling is an alternative direct route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ion-supported HZSM-5 achieve methane aromatization to benzene under non-oxidative conditions. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods affect activity, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored, as is methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, enhancing propene selectivity, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. Isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. The portion of AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5, enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to optimize energy use and product yields. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility are critical for selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde selectivity. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde a key component in organic synthesis. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. The new grafted catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significantly lowered by a support, enhancing adsorption and efficiency. This emphasizes the support's critical role in improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, improving BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. This regioselectivity stems from dehydrogenation and heterolytic dissociative adsorption mechanisms, with kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those on H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism and underscoring its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in selective alkane oxidation, with isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix enhancing performance (Quotes 1, 2, 3). Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not the sole determinant (Quotes 4-7). C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency (Quotes 8, 9), crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, crucial for converting light alkanes to aromatics in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing natural gas utilization challenges. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Mo and Zn incorporation enhances methane activation, with increased benzene yield under higher methane pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts through efficient conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficient catalysts balance CH bond activation and propene release, as DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal. This balance is essential for controlled activation-release mechanisms. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to selectively oxidize inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane differently: zinc promotes strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates weak adsorption and dissociation at high temperatures, producing ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, making the catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is pivotal for improving selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is impacted by reaction conditions, active metal state, and feed composition. Notably, FePO4 is efficient for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite facilitates methane conversion to aromatics, underscoring the specific roles of catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadia's catalytic efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2 at higher densities. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increased space velocity enhances BTX formation in ZSM-5-Zn due to higher hydrogen diffusion rates. Aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn may undergo secondary demethylation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's aromatization generates hydrogen, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, akin to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, and high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates effectively aromatize dienes at 500-600C.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation into products. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing propene formation. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving H2 selectivity and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, primarily ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The alkyl activation route, with zinc acting as an acceptor, is more favorable, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to formaldehyde, a C1 oxygenate, is critical for potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies demonstrate over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 and W/HZSM-5 catalysts, highlighting the role of metal loading and surface species dispersion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 critical for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5, along with Mo species' valence and location, significantly impact catalytic performance. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence efficiency. The introduction of Mo species modifies the zeolite's acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Understanding the real status of Mo species during reactions is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, optimizing selectivity and preventing unselective reactions. Silica, as the ideal support, stabilizes isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing catalytic activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and zeolites are key in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is catalyzed by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and recent DFT calculations suggest enhanced activity for vanadia sites on bulk surfaces compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in converting methane to methanol and carbon dioxide is influenced by the Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen). Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content. Increasing temperature raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity, favoring methanol production at lower temperatures. However, higher temperatures lead to methanol's oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O substitution for O2 promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, influences reactivity and selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface state, affecting product selectivity. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, influenced by the amount of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst redox properties are preparation-dependent, with the P:V ratio being a key determinant of selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits facile phase formation and interconversion, influenced by synthesis variables. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. Surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, enhancing olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for dehydrogenation. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalyst's Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their structure-activity relationships, influenced by spectroscopy, reveal how confined spaces in zeolites impact reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase affect the molecular structure and reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the reactant molecule, with reactions requiring multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic oxides, can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species and influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, although the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is determined by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes conversion under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, addressing deactivation through regeneration methods, critical for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, and similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, maximize alkene production. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density exhibits the highest initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. Optimal olefin yields are achieved on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of reactive gallium species, reducing reaction energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, highlighting the impact of catalyst composition and conditions on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation techniques affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and reduction of V5+. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and specific additives prevent overoxidation. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Catalyst conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum loading. At >1.3 wt.%, polymolybdate species dominate, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels (Quote 3). This leads to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). In contrast, well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 6), highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. This underscores the significance of iron and zeolite matrix composition in enhancing catalyst performance for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites are critical in methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with synergy between metal components and supports enhancing efficiency. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation necessitates strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without CO/CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Transition metals' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by vanadium loadings, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra form at higher loadings. Tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, especially those with high dispersion, excel in propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity. Conversely, AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings elevate the portion of vanadium as AlVO4, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts acidity, critical for efficiency, with active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+ playing key roles. Efficiency is influenced by the strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility, affecting selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, optimizing energy consumption and yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly enhances formaldehyde yield in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. This catalyst features highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improving efficiency over classical impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially relevant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The mechanism initiates with the CH bond weakening in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicative of the catalyst's structure. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation methods, is confirmed by XRD spectra. High CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental values. Support for vanadium oxide catalysts reduces propane adsorption barriers, enhancing efficiency, highlighting its critical role in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with propane and butane dehydrogenating to alkenes in processes like Oleflex and aromatization. ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, though selectivity is limited, producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar functionality with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, enhancing propane methyl group regioselectivity and altering alkane activation. Two mechanisms for propane dehydrogenation are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhances efficiency. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, though it's not sufficient alone. These elements are essential for the industrial significance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane follow a carbenium ion mechanism, crucial for industrial applications due to high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in V2O5(001) play a role in CH bond activation, with bridging O atoms facilitating easier propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is overly active for propene release. These catalysts are significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites catalyze alkane transformations. Zinc creates acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane for heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation produces Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride without Brnsted acids, impacting hydrocarbon conversion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is critical for enhancing efficiency and selectivity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for specific transformations. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition, which are key to optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rates, while ZSM-5-Zn operates near equilibrium. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn may arise from secondary demethylation reactions. Aromatization mechanisms differ: ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H involves hydride transfer, producing paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, particularly in propane conversion. Reoxidized catalysts, featuring dispersed Ga3+, are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium accelerates dehydrogenation of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates facilitating aromatization at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios. Trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium boost aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts feature reoxidized Ga3+ over Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates (Quote 2) and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for H2 formation (Quote 5). They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking (Quote 6), acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, which increases propene formation (Quote 9) and decreases cracking products. This optimization of aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking is vital for industrial processes, ensuring higher yields of desired products and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via alkyl and carbenium activation, with the former involving zinc cations accepting alkyl groups at activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation, with a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, is less favorable. These catalysts enhance selectivity in alkane aromatization processes, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Metal loading influences surface species dispersion, impacting formaldehyde selectivity. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The interaction of Mo and transition metal ions with zeolite supports affects aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact efficiency. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and changes in acid sites due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite properties. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction by reactive terminal oxo species, facilitates alkane transformations. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkane-to-alkene and alkane-to-aromatic conversions, with metalalkyl intermediates playing a key role. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for optimal selectivity in n-butane and ethane transformations. Selectivity for ethene surpasses that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, boosting selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, critical for efficiency, vary with vanadium content, featuring Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is essential. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, highlights vanadyl sites as critical in the rate-determining step. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, preserving overall kinetics. Enhanced activity is observed in vanadia sites on bulk surfaces compared to monomers on silica, emphasizing the role of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varied Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is seen with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production is optimal at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to further oxidation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity is optimal at intermediate VOx domain sizes, balancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, impacts selectivity and combustion rates, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting ODH performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and ODH activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and affecting CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, affects product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, with high Vv content leading to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affects catalytic performance and reaction mechanism understanding. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects, with oxygen balances showing the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source in both but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in the but-1-ene case.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Bifunctional catalysts, with metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for olefin oligomerization and cyclization, are crucial. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane adsorption. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups, with protonation by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitating H/D exchange. Zn species enhance CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, promoting aromatization ability. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites promotes alkane dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites, enhancing aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships optimize catalytic performance, with confined spaces in zeolites fostering the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, essential for ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption, though hydrogenation can reduce site reactivity. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and its molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule, with reactions needing one site being less sensitive to surface vanadia coverage than those requiring multiple sites. Interacting additives, like acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure as critical factors. These catalysts enable the activation of light alkanes under mild conditions, yielding valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods tackle deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts boost ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates notably higher than ethene at given temperatures. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures to avoid homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. Persistent controversies in previous studies were due to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, along with temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites catalyzes alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Extraframework oxygen atoms and cationic clusters, like Ga+, play key roles. Oxidation of Ga+ in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl ions, enhanced by steam. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation, olefin desorption, and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the Lewis acid pair.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere and the presence of certain promoters enhance performance. A slight excess of phosphorus in the catalyst composition aids in avoiding V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, affecting the catalyst's behavior over time. These factors are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo loading, affecting structure and performance. At high loads, polymolybdate species dominate, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels, which increases methane conversion but decreases formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, ammonia-treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites exhibit high efficiency in selective oxidation, converting benzene to phenol with selectivity close to 100% at moderate conversion rates, highlighting their potential for advancing organic synthesis through alkane transformations. This efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, and the matrix's chemical composition, making them significant in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are elucidated through studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through additions of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts catalytic performance. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, with CH bond splitting attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct and indirect conversion routes yield various products, with oxidative coupling of methane studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits, while supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation remains a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalyst properties, influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction. Higher vanadium loadings favor VO6 octahedra, affecting catalytic performance. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, with AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 showing low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance catalytic activity, with efficiency rising from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5 due to the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 zeolite, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species post-calcination. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the catalyst, is scientifically and industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The activation mechanism begins with the weakness of methane's CH bond, caused by its interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The specific activity of isolated MoO42species in the new grafted Mo/HZSM-5 catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental findings. Complex reactions, including concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may necessitate support for vanadium oxide catalysts, underscoring the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkane conversion, including methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, is a key area. Higher alkanes can convert independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, using ZSM-5 catalysts, is central in aromatics production, notably BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for managing zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, evidenced by differing kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in selective alkane oxidation, with isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix and multifunctionality crucial for catalyst design and reaction mechanism. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity significantly impact efficiency. Product stability and multifunctionality's limitations highlight the complexity of alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure. Low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo and Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, following a carbenium ion mechanism, highlighting their industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5 can activate CH bonds, favoring propene production at the bridging O site. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as excessive activity on single-crystal V2O5(001) can hinder propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, crucial for dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, polarizing and heterolytically dissociating it at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity in industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, prioritizes efficiency. Factors like pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition significantly impact performance. For instance, FePO4 enhances CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite facilitates methane to aromatics conversion, demonstrating the role of these variables in optimizing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density significantly influence catalytic behavior. At low densities, vanadia forms dispersed species on most supports except SiO2, where large V2O5 crystallites form. Structures evolve to polyvanadates and V2O5 with higher density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains that balance activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites, independent of support when VOx structure is considered. Propene formation and secondary oxidation rates are unaffected by support type or VOx structure, highlighting the robustness of the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ up to the limit of anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, which is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at high temperatures. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation reactions, enhancing propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They prevent cracking, increase propene formation, and improve yields and selectivity, crucial for industrial applications, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl route, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, making them industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as demonstrated with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo/HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with Mo species and zeolite acidity significantly impacting catalytic activity. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, are pivotal for optimal performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, a process central to methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge to reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers, crucial for high selectivities. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyzing H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity to olefins peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loadings and VO6 octahedra at high loadings; octahedral V5+ species show higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity. The nature of acid sites, crucial for catalytic performance, evolves with vanadium loading.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is essential in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers, as per recent DFT calculations. This highlights the importance of catalyst structure and composition in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Lower iron content optimizes selectivity for methane to methanol. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    