Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Catalysts with isolated active sites, like VOx-SBA-15, are highly efficient. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product selectivity. Surface modifications and dynamics are essential for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. The conversion from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, with Vw reduction controlling the first step and Vv availability governing the second. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. In the vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, the P:V ratio is a key parameter for catalyst selectivity and activity, with selectivity increasing with higher phosphorus loading. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is crucial, with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support the single-site mechanism for selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. CH bond cleavage at acid sites is catalyzed by Zn or Ga, promoting H atom desorption as H2, which shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating CH bond breakage. Zn influences alkane activation through adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn-alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species from isolated GaO+. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced by increased Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite efficiency. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by surface vanadia coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structure, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with the bridging V-O-support bond associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is obtained at intermediate surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at maximum temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam addition, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives, enhancing performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving stability. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, display efficiency variance linked to preparation and composition. Two series were studied: one conventionally impregnated, featuring tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other, treated with ammonia, yielding a dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species, dominant at higher molybdenum loads, reduce dispersion and obstruct zeolite channels (Quote 3), enhancing methane activation but compromising formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, treated catalysts exhibit lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, underscoring the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, specifically the oxidation of benzene to phenol. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, highlighting their potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites, active species, and mechanisms are crucial. Oxygen's use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a leading catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production and Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane aromatization follows the activity sequence: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. The addition of a second metal component boosts activity. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing catalytic activity. The efficiency is influenced by the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, which increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) boosts catalytic activity over conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The catalyst's structure, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, reveals highly dispersed MoO42species in oxidation state VI on the surface, without MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. This innovation, involving a reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and the complex's acetylacetonate ligands, yields isolated oxo species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers a promising approach for alkane transformations, addressing the weakness of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. The barriers, initially 45-80 kcal/mol, are significantly higher than for supported vanadia, suggesting complex reactions like O2 adsorption may reduce some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction is support-dependent, underscoring the importance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, utilizing ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations, specifically hydrogen removal from propane, by altering the mechanism of activation. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating regioselective H/D exchange. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification alters the exchange mechanism, improving regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective oxidation (1) and require vanadium isolation in a quasi-inert matrix (2). Multifunctionality is crucial for catalyst design and understanding reaction mechanisms (5, 6), complemented by C-H bond activation, acidity/basicity, and product stability, all impacting efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, leading to propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and dehydrogenation, with higher methane partial pressure increasing benzene yield. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For example, V2O5(001) activates propane's CH bond but its high activity at the terminal O site hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between activation and product release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation pathways, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences enhance dehydrogenation selectivity and efficiency, crucial for industrial alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion, where efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition. These factors are pivotal for achieving higher product selectivity and longer catalyst life, demonstrating industrial significance in processes such as methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom increase with VOx density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are also support-independent, highlighting the role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The main conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate. Increasing space velocity leads to higher BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Reduced gallium enhances propane aromatization but is less selective for ethane conversion to aromatics compared to reoxidized materials. Optimal catalysts generate dispersed Ga3+ at 550C, ideal for ethane dehydrogenation. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates effectively aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not solely consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This accelerates propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking, improving efficiency. Sequential H-atom release limits reaction rates, affecting selectivity. Ga and Zn increase H2 formation via recombinative desorption, enabling efficient H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking and enhancing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two main routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor in the mechanism, with activation energies indicating the steps' feasibility. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts, demonstrating the importance of metal oxide dispersion. Formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, affected by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial, impacting the formation of aromatics and carbonaceous deposits. Metals such as Ru and Pt boost reactivity, whereas V and Li decrease it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature significantly affect catalytic performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence activity. Understanding the real status and role of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Optimal conditions prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkylation and coaromatization of methane, converting alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. M-zeolites, especially those containing Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species dominate at lower loadings, offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species are prevalent at higher loadings. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being a key step. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica surfaces, where hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit increased activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, in sodium or hydrogen form with varying Si/Fe ratios, affect alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (quote 7). Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is seen with low iron content (quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C (quote 11), declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 show distinct speeds for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, enhanced by N2O substitution for O2. Support type influences vanadium reduction and activity, with V2O5-ZrO2 being more reactive than V2O5-Al2O3 and V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants lower activity but raise propylene selectivity in propane ODH. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. MoOx domain size affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants inhibit initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through redox properties that modify the catalyst surface, impacting product formation. Surface dynamics control selectivity, with vanadium's valence state influenced by feed redox potential, oxidation, and reduction rates. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation are critical in alkane to maleic anhydride conversion, governed by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's complex chemistry, including phase interconversion, affects catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and P:V ratios enhance selectivity and activity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is a key active phase. Oxygen concentration determines single-site mechanisms for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, forming intermediates that facilitate dehydrogenation and aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation, which oligomerize and cyclize to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, affecting their oxidation states. The presence of isolated surface vanadia species on silica supports enhances stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently convert alkanes into aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields. Novel regeneration methods extend catalyst life, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are notably higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane, decreasing with temperature for both. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Detailed kinetic analysis on vanadia/alumina with a wide surface density range, contrasting results with propane, reveals that ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, significantly enhance alkane transformation efficiency, particularly in dehydrogenation. Ga/ZSM-5 exhibits superior activity due to the formation of reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions upon oxidation. Water promotes the creation of hydrolyzed gallium species, crucial for reducing the energy required for hydrogen recombination. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions, leading to olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, key in alkane transformations, were prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favored polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. A second series, treated with ammonia, produced a well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene oxidation to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant properties of dinitrogen monoxide. This process is significant for organic synthesis technologies, highlighting the importance of understanding how catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions affect mechanisms and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 excels as a catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation, and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Methane's direct transformation to methanol and formaldehyde has been investigated. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower catalytic activity. Studies reveal that phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion of vanadium species at high temperatures and loadings significantly impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially affect alkane transformations. Metals in HZSM-5, such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, create active species enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, ascending from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, is pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin production from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts formaldehyde yield in methane partial oxidation (MPO) reactions, outperforming traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, critical for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods, is industrially significant due to vast natural gas reserves. The catalyst's synthesis involves grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, followed by calcination, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence, while XRD spectra indicate no MoO3 aggregates, signifying high dispersion. Efficiency stems from the interaction between zeolite surface OH groups and acetylacetonate ligands, leading to isolated oxo species. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on metal oxide dispersion and nature, with CO selectivity tied to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental findings. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the support's role in vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar, targeting BTX production. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred for their stability at reaction temperatures, avoiding zinc volatilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, which change the mechanism of alkane activation by favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms involve propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation or deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species, leading to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix, are critical for selective alkane oxidation. Multifunctionality serves as a design principle and aids in understanding reaction mechanisms, yet it's not solely sufficient. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity also significantly influence efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalyst. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts offer a promising approach for methane conversion, addressing a significant catalysis challenge. These catalysts show high activity and selectivity for benzene production under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. Studies reveal improved catalytic activity due to metal cation addition, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. This contributes to the industrial significance by enabling efficient conversion to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) activate CH bonds, with bridging O sites favoring propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the overactivity of terminal O atoms, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over zinc involves heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, impacting efficiency and selectivity, and are critical for the industrial conversion of alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is crucial for advancing methane conversion, with FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite showing efficacy. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment, reaction conditions, additives, metal state, and feed composition, key to optimizing performance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Oxidative dehydrogenation and secondary propene oxidation rates are support-independent.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and space velocity. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H generating paraffins. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 enabling gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ at 550C for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation reactions, leading to C6 aromatics. They increase propane conversion rates, facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, and enable efficient hydrogen disposal as dihydrogen (H2). Ga and Zn sites permit dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, boost aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing propene formation and H2 extraction with high selectivity. This significantly improves the efficiency and industrial significance of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation initiates aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism. Activation barriers determine efficiency, with carbenium activation being less favorable due to higher energy requirements. This highlights the importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts show formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, when converting methane to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite supports and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits are crucial. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activating H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, but selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. The nature of acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the mechanisms and applications of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide-based catalysts on silica play a crucial role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a key alkane transformation process. Monomeric vanadium oxide species facilitate the reaction, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increased temperature and contact time raise methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Catalyst performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Alkane/O2 ratios dictate the extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically active centers. Silica-supported catalysts exhibit higher selectivity than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but enhance propylene selectivity, correlating with basicity and MO bond energy. Molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, yet surface Mo species reactivity increases with Mo surface density. MoOx domain size affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface, impacting product formation. Surface alterations by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, precedes further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure significantly affect the reaction mechanism. Optimal selectivity in n-butane oxidation requires a V4+/V5+ ratio of 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading in the P:V ratio enhances selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites, leading to alkane dehydrogenation and the formation of aromatic molecules. This demonstrates Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces' reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing catalysis relationships. In high-silica zeolites, extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are influenced by coordination environment and charge compensation. Binuclear gallium-oxo species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is stable under various conditions and ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reduction state and molecular structure of surface vanadia species are crucial for understanding their reactivity during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction, and the stability of the V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the isolated nature of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence the local structure. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V2O5 powders have both surface Brønsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Brønsted acid sites. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the specific oxide support affects the TOF, with a general trend inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic or basic oxides, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives can affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is governed by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the activation of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimized composition and reaction conditions boost yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration techniques counteract deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are achieved on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters' nature, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly influences alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy, and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Catalysts transform over time, with initial stages being more active but less selective. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. High Mo loading (over 1.3 wt.%) leads to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Treated catalysts, with a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the matrix's chemical composition, and the oxidant's features, offering advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively researched for improved catalyst performance. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalyst activity, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component can boost activity or stability. Surface oxygen species likely split the CH bond in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic properties. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings produce VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, through composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 increase acidity, crucial for catalytic activity, with Lewis sites strength in the order Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, crucial for fuel and organic synthesis. The catalyst's activity surpasses classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields isolated MoO42species, boosting formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. This catalyst's structure and composition offer potential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, 45-80 kcal/mol, which complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can reduce. A support in vanadium oxide catalysts is essential to lower barriers, such as propane adsorption, highlighting factors that influence efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, a process of significant interest. Higher alkanes like C&/C, can undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, changing the mechanism of alkane activation and enhancing regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix, are key in alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. While multifunctionality aids design and mechanism understanding, it's not the sole determinant. Product stability is also critical. These factors ensure industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, and subsequent dehydrogenation yields propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks, demonstrating higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing potential for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, boosting benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism facilitates dehydrogenation and aromatization, highlighting improved catalytic activity and industrial importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) shows that bridging O sites, due to weaker propoxide binding, facilitate easier propene production, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for an efficient catalyst. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation pathways in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, without Brnsted acid proton formation. These activation differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion, focusing on FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition, underscoring their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity, reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation, crucial for C6 aromatic formation. They enhance propane conversion and H2 production via recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking. Acting as 'portholes', these species remove H-atoms, improving efficiency and selectivity, yielding more propene and reducing by-products, with significant industrial impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The preferred mechanism involves the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group post-CH bond rupture, with activation energies for the steps. The alternative carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as shown with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is critical for catalytic performance. Various pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Understanding the real status of Mo species during reactions and its role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is fundamental for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates best at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involving H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At low V loadings, VO4 tetrahedra dominate, achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions despite lower activity compared to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects selectivity and activity, crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are rate-determining, but VOSi sites can also participate without affecting overall kinetics. Notably, vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content enhances methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time boosts conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity. Methane conversion reaches up to 31.51% with the largest iron content, and the highest selectivity for methane to methanol (about 74%) is attained with the lowest iron content. The sodium form of molecular sieves increases the selectivity of methane oxidation to oxygenates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst supports, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affect selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being the most selective. Additives like alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The VOx-SBA-15 system offers a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density, up to a maximum of 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence selectivity and activity. The Vw reduction rate controls the first oxidative dehydrogenation step, while the Vv amount governs the second oxidation step. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including crystalline phases and P:V ratio, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, but decreases specific activity. The PVO system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V:V ratio and surface oxygen concentration determine the mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species that enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, fostering structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal species' stability and reactivity depend on coordination environment and charge compensation. GaO+ species form multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations cleave CH bonds, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination enhance H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can decompose clusters via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, acidity, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to coverage, while those needing multiple sites are. Interacting additives influence all reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, with acidic and basic additives affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. They enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency and yields, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures to avoid homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reaction rates. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by their composition and structure. High molybdenum loadings lead to polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3), resulting in higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). In contrast, ammonia-treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This process highlights the role of zeolite catalytic activity, iron, zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties, showcasing progress in aromatic hydroxylation for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a pivotal strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are notably effective, with activity further enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been a focus for catalyst improvement. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Surface oxygen species interact with methane, splitting the CH bond. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites promote methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina surfaces form isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings yield VO6 octahedra. High vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K enhance catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal introduction into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity, crucial for alkane transformations. The acidity increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, vital for processes. These catalysts are industrially significant for MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. The CH bond weakness, caused by methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leading to lower CO selectivity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, essential for the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly above reactants. Considering complex reactions and a triplet state may lower these barriers. The need for a support for vanadium oxide catalysts highlights the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts in processes like Oleflex. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Higher alkanes can undergo conversion without co-reactants, and methane conversion to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a significant area of research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Zn/H-MFI zeolites enhance efficiency by leveraging Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites, which modify the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit unique kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably isolated vanadium ions in quasi-inert matrices and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation, product stability, multifunctionality, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding but requires additional factors for comprehensive efficiency. These elements are essential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. The addition of metal cations enhances ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, facilitating heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Gallium, however, exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments that coordinate to gallium, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly influence hydrocarbon conversions and reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including methane conversion and CH3OH/HCHO production. Their efficiency and selectivity are impacted by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. Developing catalysts with enhanced selectivity and longevity is a priority, underscoring their industrial importance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local concentration, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn, highlighting the role of hydrogen generation in aromatization mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as seen in the increased rates of H2 formation. They facilitate dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, enhancing propene production by deactivating acid sites. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn improve efficiency and selectivity, leading to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, crucial for industrial processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the zinc cation facilitating the first step. Dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes precedes dehydrocyclooligomerization in aromatization. Activation energies for key steps are summarized, with the carbenium activation mechanism being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show high selectivities with specific catalysts, highlighting the correlation between tungsten oxide dispersion and formaldehyde selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The Mo-zeolite interaction and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are pivotal for catalytic activity. Metal loading, notably Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature also influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic efficiency. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over HZSM-5 is critical. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition impact zeolite activity. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a challenge for process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C with silica as the ideal support. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface species' terminal oxo groups being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo- and Zn-containing ones, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at high loading, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a key step, with monomeric vanadium oxide on silica modeling the process. Hydrogen abstraction initiates at OVV sites, with subsequent steps involving VOSi bridging oxygen. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (up to 31.51% at the highest content), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity (about 74%) is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, favoring methanol production at lower temperatures before further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate-sized VOx domains for balanced surface activity and reactant access. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Support type impacts V reduction and activity, with V2O5-ZrO2 being more reactive. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with optimal performance at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is determined by the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by Vw reduction, while further oxidation is controlled by Vv availability. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics through a bifunctional mechanism. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange and facilitates CH bond breakage, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces enhance reactivity, studied through spectroscopy and theory. Extraframework metal species' stability and reactivity are affected by coordination environment and charge compensation. GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, as evidenced by increased Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity upon water co-feeding, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports and species polymerization. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with vanadia coverage, with their role in reactions requiring further study. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. Reactions requiring one surface site show TOF independence of vanadia coverage, while those needing multiple sites are sensitive to coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being key factors. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. The ratio of alkene combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation decreases with temperature for both reactants. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Ethene and propene formation rates are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum at intermediate surface densities. Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity at all reactant conversion levels. Alkene selectivity generally increases with increasing reaction temperature and with decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions, with steam stabilizing the process. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, highlighting the importance of metal-based catalysts in industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, with a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen impacts performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, enhancing stability. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Nonequilibrated catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated ones have stable V4+. These factors are essential for optimizing catalyst performance in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, influence methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with the latter predominant at high molybdenum loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-treated catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion in the oxidation of benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's chemical composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports are revealed, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond split in methane is attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are shaped by preparation techniques, support type, and environmental conditions. VO4 units form at lower vanadium loadings, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields optimal propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The sublimation introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 creates active species, enhancing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are pivotal in petrochemical processes, including MTG and olefin manufacture, due to their ability to catalyze under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields. Acid site strength, metal species stability, and reducibility are critical for alkane conversion and selectivity, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst features highly dispersed MoO42molybdenum(VI) species, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance spectra, XPS analysis, and XRD spectra, which indicate the absence of MoO3 aggregates. The new catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers potential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions involving O2 adsorption. The need for support in vanadium oxide catalysts is highlighted, as it significantly reduces propane adsorption barriers and enhances efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is crucial in aromatization, converting light gases to BTX aromatics with ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion isn't selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms in propane are: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction from another propane molecule, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, a preferred element in alkane oxidation catalysts, boosts efficiency when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not solely sufficient. Efficiency is also influenced by product stability, the nature of C-H bond activation, and the acidity/basicity of the catalyst. These factors are critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize and cyclize, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, enhancing aromatization. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in alkane transformations, particularly in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Mo and Zn enhance methane activation, with benzene yield rising as methane partial pressure increases. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, and metal cation incorporation boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. These catalysts' efficiency and selectivity are key to industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the overactivity of terminal O atoms. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct pathways: strong ethane adsorption by zinc and basic oxygen sites leads to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas weak adsorption on gallium results in ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Upon dissociation, zinc produces Brnsted acid protons, while gallium forms gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly influence hydrocarbon conversions involving dehydrogenation, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products, such as ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state, location, and feed composition, impacting industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increased space velocity enhances BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to higher hydrogen diffusion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn produces hydrogen, unlike the paraffin-generating mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are active but less selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, affecting aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, enhancing H2 formation through recombinative desorption of H-atoms, and preventing cracking. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase propene yields by removing H-atoms from acid sites, reducing by-products, and boosting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization of ethane and propane starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc cations accepting alkyl groups, and activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route has a high activation barrier, making it less favorable. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformations. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are pivotal. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is essential for methane dehydro-aromatization, with the zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo's valence and location, critical for performance. Certain metals, including Ru, Pt, and W, enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, impacting the reaction mechanism. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Understanding Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions, governed by the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing propane oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the Si/Fe molar ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen). Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation (Quote 11 & 12). Sodium Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation compared to the hydrogen form (Quote 13 & 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and substituting N2O for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, significantly impacts selectivity and reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, influencing catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants alter MoOx structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is significantly influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state and impact product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate, is critical. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. The P:V ratio is a key parameter, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, where metal species dehydrogenate alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, directly influencing the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species (Quote 3), enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, boosting ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are stable and reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. The presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds affects reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being key. These catalysts enable the activation of light alkanes under mild conditions, converting them into valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with low surface density and isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density shows the highest initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction, a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207, additives like Zn2+ preventing overoxidation, and conditioning transforming the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, key in alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Higher molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) in the first series favored polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the properties of dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant. These factors are essential for developing efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal for methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is essential for deep methane oxidation, but efforts aim to suppress CO and CO2 by converting methane to higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a highly exothermic reaction, benefits from the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities creates active species, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The acidity ratio and strength follow a sequence: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength as Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly impact selectivity and conversion. Industrially, these catalysts are crucial for processes like MTG and olefin manufacture from methanol, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is critical due to vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into methanol and formaldehyde, key components in fuel and synthetic organic methods. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase, with isolated MoO42species boosting formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. The barriers are larger than those observed for supported vanadia, indicating the importance of support in reducing adsorption barriers and enhancing efficiency. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, contribute to barrier reduction, highlighting the significance of support for vanadium oxide catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with ZSM-5 catalysts pivotal in dehydrogenation processes converting propane and butane to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX. Selectivity in aromatization is partial, yielding light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, changing alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation ([1]), with vanadium ion isolation in a stable matrix ([2]) and product stability ([3]) boosting efficiency. Multifunctionality ([4]) aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not solely sufficient. C-H bond activation type ([8]) and acidity/basicity ([9]) significantly affect the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate it to propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene may oligomerize, and dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Reactant partial pressure affects efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5(001) and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlights the role of terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, favoring propene production at the bridging O site. However, the excessive activity of terminal O atoms hinders propene release, necessitating a balance for optimal catalyst performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, facilitating ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton generation. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes converting alkanes into valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, focuses on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are crucially influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn has dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls the rate. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, show enhanced aromatization activity, notably for propane. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can revert to Ga+ with hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates can aromatize specific aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence the balance between alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity as a key indicator. Pretreatments significantly impact catalyst performance in ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as seen in increased deuterium incorporation. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking turnover, crucial for propene formation and reduced by-product formation, thus enhancing industrial processes by improving reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zn-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and less favorable carbenium activation with a high barrier. Dehydrogenation to alkenes is the first step in alkane aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies for key steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, are optimized through modification and reaction conditions. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 and metal loading enhance reactivity and stability. Channel structure, acidity, and metal valence affect performance. Pre-treatments and conditions significantly influence catalysis. Understanding Mo species' role and overcoming carbon deposit challenges are pivotal for methane chemistry and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities, and oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing diverse metals, efficiently convert alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, crucial for alkane transformations, vary with vanadium content, affecting both selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites, are pivotal in the rate-determining step of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadia sites integrated into the bulk surface are more active than monomers on silica, underscoring the significance of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by iron content, temperature, and catalyst form. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, with optimal selectivity at lower iron levels. Sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Increasing temperature and contact time boosts methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is best at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    