Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The performance is affected by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and rates per vanadium atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The basicity of the support affects selectivity, with basic metal oxides improving propylene desorption. VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency and selectivity of these processes are influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, influenced by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and the reduction rate, is crucial. A two-step mechanism for maleic anhydride synthesis from alkanes or alkenes involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the availability of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the formation rate of vanadium(V). The preparation procedures of catalysts, such as the P:V ratio, significantly impact their redox properties and performance. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, characterized by the formation of various crystalline phases, shows that the P:V ratio is a key parameter for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations, supporting a single-site mechanism. The different reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface highlight the complexity of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing structure-activity relationships. Extraframework gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reactive environments. Oxidation states and reactivity are sensitive to hydrocarbon environments, with V(5+) species predominant. The molecular structure is unaffected by preparation methods or oxide support phase. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, with a decrease in these sites and an increase in Br0nsted acid sites upon vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density, with ethene and propene formation rates peaking at intermediate densities. Monovanadate structures at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reactivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, optimizing olefin yields on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga/ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation forming reactive GaO+ ions, is crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation affects (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts. These insights are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation followed by ammonia washing, influence methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with the latter predominant at high molybdenum loadings, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (quote [3]). Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species (quote [4]). Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity (quote [5]). Monomeric species, however, offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion (quote [6]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the oxidation of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This highlights the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting research into higher hydrocarbon production without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing its activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion route. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes using supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in concentrated feeds. High vanadium loadings and temperatures affect the nature and properties of vanadium oxide species, impacting phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion. The highest propene selectivity correlates with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike the less active AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. The introduction of metals leads to the formation of strong Lewis acid sites and regeneration of Brnsted acid sites, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. The reaction conditions also influence the nature of active species and catalytic performance. The presence of these active species and the resulting acidity are critical for the efficiency of alkane transformations, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The catalyst's preparation involves washing, drying, and calcining to yield [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane conversion into organic compounds, particularly methanol and formaldehyde, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, caused by interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV and XPS analysis confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to more valuable products, including alkenes and aromatics, through catalytic dehydrogenation. Processes like Oleflex use catalysts such as ZSM-5 to transform light gases into aromatics, particularly BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 improving BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, demonstrating the influence of metal-based catalysts on alkane transformation efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms involve propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. The modification of zeolite with Zn leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism for propane on Zn/H-MFI, highlighting its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium, as a preferred element, enhances selective oxidation of alkanes, especially when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix. Efficiency is also influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through initial dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K demonstrates high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, with yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. The modified ZSM-5's structure and metal cation addition improve catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure influence the activation of CH bonds, with both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) activating the CH bond of propane. The radical and oxo-insertion pathways are viable at the terminal O site, while only the oxo-insertion mechanism works at the bridging O site. Propene production is easier at the bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active for propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including modified zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. Ethane activation over zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 reveals distinct mechanisms: zinc forms acid-base pairs with oxygen, polarizing ethane and facilitating heterolytic dissociation, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation produces Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium forms dihydride species without such protons, affecting dehydrogenation selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. Catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane conversion to aromatics, respectively, demonstrate the impact of these factors on performance. There's a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity in methane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior in propane oxidative dehydrogenation are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity (60-70%). The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, crucial for propene formation and aromatization without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2), which limits the rate and selectivity of dehydrocyclodimerization on H-ZSM5. These species increase aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations. The selective H-atom removal contributes to high-yield product formation and valuable H2 extraction, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation in a zinc-exchanged zeolite revealed two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol, potentially replacing the conventional three-step process, is widely studied. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as reported in the partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite, crucial for catalytic performance, changes acid sites, impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions greatly affect catalytic activity. The mode of methane activation and the role of Mo species during the reaction are pivotal for understanding and developing methane chemistry theories. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge to process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selective activation of alkenes like propene. Silica optimally supports small clusters for high selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction, is crucial. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange and forming aromatics. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity but peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at higher loads, with the former achieving better selectivity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V, also vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica. This highlights the importance of catalyst composition and structure in enhancing reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with the Si/Fe ratio, catalyst form, temperature, and contact time significantly impacting methane conversion and selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce selectivity for methanol. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring Fe(III) in framework sites, is critical for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Supports like silica, alumina, and titania affect selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina-supported ones, which in turn are more selective than titania-supported catalysts. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps, and enhancing propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, affects product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications and the catalyst's working state dynamics are key to understanding selectivity-controlling properties. Two reaction steps are identified in converting alkanes to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties. At low conversion, catalysts show similar selectivity, but at high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, influences catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Zn-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at Brnsted acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefins further oligomerize and dehydrocyclize to aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy helps elucidate structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces is governed by the coordination environment of extraframework metal-containing cationic species. Oligomerization of isolated GaO+ species in microporous space is driven by the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding increases the steady-state concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in catalytic experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for understanding their reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase impact the molecular structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia and phosphate, can enhance or retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting the TOF and selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts are industrially significant for activating light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions improves yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is on catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadates at high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning at high temperatures. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives affect performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in efficiency. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, including oxo ions and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. After grafting, calcination yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, due to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, given the vast natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra show high dispersion of oxo species. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation, indicates successful grafting. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are larger than experimentally observed values for supported vanadia. Barriers may be reduced by considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the involvement of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, which is essential for lowering adsorption barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex-like processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, yielding light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification of the zeolite leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium, as the preferred element, and the isolation of its ions in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity levels also affect efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, though not solely sufficient. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to chemical products or fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method, posing a significant catalysis science challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5 with Mo or Zn, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. The addition of metal cations boosts ZSM-5's activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. Reaction conditions and a carbenium ion mechanism contribute to the industrial importance of these catalysts, enabling high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on single-crystal V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct paths: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption by acid-base pairs, while gallium results in weak ethane adsorption and ethyl/hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. The zinc case forms Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are vital for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to aromatics and other products. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition. There's a need for catalysts that offer higher selectivity and longevity, highlighting the ongoing development in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn exhibits quasi-equilibrium dehydrogenation, unlike ZSM-5-H's rate-controlled process. Higher space velocity leads to increased BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H uses hydride transfer, generating paraffins. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, and exhibits similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reduced Ga/ZSM-5 is less active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for dehydrogenation processes. These metals facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, particularly in propene formation. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to their industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite identified two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor, and computed activation energies are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol, potentially replacing the conventional three-step process, is widely studied. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and reaction condition optimization are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role are pivotal for catalytic performance and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key for reaction understanding. Mo introduction changes zeolite acid sites, impacting reaction mechanisms. Methane activation mode remains debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in the reaction pathway are significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites as key industrial catalysts. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates for dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ -Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The activation of CH bonds is a fundamental step in these transformations. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica are modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs first on OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit different rates for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state of metal cations under reaction conditions are key factors. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic performance are influenced by the support type. Catalysts with vanadium oxide on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with optimal activity at 4.5 Mo/nm2. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence influences MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation influences redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding reaction mechanisms. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkane conversion to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium to olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces impact reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to coordination optimization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights are crucial for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species is determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, influenced by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The molecular structures of reduced surface vanadia species can be studied using various spectroscopic methods. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of the V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The specific oxide support phase influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species, but not the long-range order of the oxide substrate. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support can dramatically affect the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of k2/k1 for propane increases with vanadia surface density, unlike ethane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts ODH rates and selectivity. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include low vanadia surface density and high temperatures, consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions. Monovanadate species at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Ga/ZSM-5, upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The Ga2O2 dimer facilitates alkane dehydrogenation through heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, showcasing the catalysts' industrial significance in processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. The first, prepared by conventional impregnation, yielded tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) led to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant's features. This process holds promise for advancing organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, offers an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable two-step transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, notably Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, influence catalyst activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is highly exothermic, peaking at 873 K. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and efficiency. The acidity ratio increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst was created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, caused by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and UV spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are significant in industrial catalysis. These barriers, initially 45-80 kcal/mol, are lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination. The involvement of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts is essential for reducing barriers and enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite influence the regioselective H/D exchange of propane by acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion from another propane molecule; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. The modification of zeolite with Zn changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts play a key role in propane activation, where the initial step involves dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization over acidic sites, highlighting the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. The efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and the addition of metal cations improves dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The CH bond activation and propene production are influenced by the catalyst's composition and structure. Single-crystal V2O5(001) activates CH bonds via both radical and oxo-insertion pathways, but its high activity hinders propene release, making it unsuitable. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane at moderate temperatures, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences crucially affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, with industrial relevance in converting alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type, VOx density, or structure. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions impact alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. ZSM-5-Zn's higher hydrogen diffusion rate leads to increased BTX formation at higher space velocities. Aromatics formed over ZSM-5-Zn may result from secondary demethylation reactions. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H using a hydride transfer mechanism. The activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking relative rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase propene formation by deactivating acid sites. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity in aromatization reactions while reducing cracking. Their role in recombinative desorption contributes to high-yield H2 extraction from light alkanes, a significant industrial benefit.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations acting as alkyl group acceptors. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the initial step. These findings highlight the catalysts' role in increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial, affecting catalytic performance and reaction mechanisms. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish these properties. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species' role and the modification of zeolite acid sites are pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge for process development. The status of Mo species during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Optimal conditions for oxidative dehydrogenation are around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including those with Mo or Zn, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, and under oxidizing conditions, catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites in bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is also support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia being more selective than alumina or titania-supported variants. Additives, such as alkali and alkaline earth metals, modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. In molybdenum oxide catalysts, activity per Mo atom increases with Mo surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, while MoOx domain size impacts Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting mechanisms and efficiency. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. A two-step reaction mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride is observed, with the first step controlled by Vw reduction and the second by the availability of Vv. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's complexity, including the P:V ratio, affects selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective conversion. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, with lattice oxygen playing a crucial role in reactivity and interaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity (Quote 1). The mechanism's complexity, involving metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for oligomerization and cyclization, is a subject of debate (Quote 2). Zn or Ga act as portholes, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2 (Quote 5), shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane (Quote 6). Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatic species (Quote 7). Zn species enhance alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores (Quote 11), forming Zn-alkyl species (Quote 13) that interact with zeolite acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation (Quotes 15-17). Zn's presence facilitates easier CH bond breaking and formation (Quote 18), promoting aromatization (Quote 19). Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability (Quote 20). The mechanism, involving zeolite acid sites and alkane-and-Zn sites, leads to alkane dehydrogenation (Quote 21). Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites (Quote 23).", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy helps elucidate structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, the reactivity of confined spaces is studied through spectroscopy and theory, leading to structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as evidenced by increased Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity upon water co-feeding. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer surface coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopic techniques. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments form surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is influenced by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly affect the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species formation decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing composition and reaction conditions, leading to higher yields. Regeneration methods extend catalyst operational life, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include intermediate vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects ODH rates and selectivity. Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 is enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation, forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous impregnation followed by ammonia washing, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) in the first series leads to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels, which are more reactive in methane activation but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, the second series, with a well-dispersed monomeric species, shows lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the selective oxidation of aromatics to hydroxylation products, such as phenol, with nearly 100% selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in these processes is influenced by the nature of catalytic activity, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, exemplified by dinitrogen monoxide. This highlights the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been investigated. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. After grafting and calcination, highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species were obtained. This catalyst improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, given methane's abundance in natural gas reserves. The initial step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra show no aggregates, indicating high dispersion. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Barrier reduction may occur in complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barriers might require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, indicating the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium preferred for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix enhances efficiency. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding but is insufficient alone. These elements are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further transformations. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K yields high benzene selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and the addition of metal cations boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the bridging O site facilitates easier propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without forming Brnsted acid protons. This difference in activation directly impacts dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes, where there's a demand for catalysts with higher selectivity and longevity. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate efficiency and selectivity influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As VOx density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions dictate VOx structures at given densities, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. The apparent activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons formed over ZSM-5-Zn may result from secondary demethylation of aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within the zeolite, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects on catalyst performance. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in zeolites, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. These metals facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Ga and Zn species increase propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking rates, contributing to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-products. This selective H-atom removal also aids in the extraction of valuable H2 from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1) compared to the high barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1) in the carbenium route. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations act as acceptors in the alkyl rupture mechanism. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity in methane's partial oxidation over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the channel structure's acidity are key for catalytic performance. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature affect performance. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is pivotal for understanding reaction pathways and methane activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge for process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving terminal oxo species, is key, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental, impacting both technological and enzymatic reactions. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, hydrogen abstraction occurs first at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also participating in hydrogen abstraction without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadia sites in bulk surfaces may exhibit higher activity than supported monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) framework incorporation. These factors collectively influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymerized VO4 species are active, with the latter more extensively reduced during alkane oxidation. Higher surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity. Using N2O instead of O2 enhances surface reduction and selectivity. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from isolating active sites, as seen in VOx-SBA-15 systems, which offer a high concentration of accessible, structurally defined sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The efficiency and selectivity of these transformations are influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feedstock significantly impact the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, affecting product formation. Specifically, the valence state of vanadium, influenced by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and the reduction rate, is crucial. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by the availability of Vv. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the formation rate of vanadium(V). The preparation method of the catalyst affects its redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its various crystalline phases, has been studied for its role in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is a key factor in determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then undergo further oxidation to form partial oxidation products. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations, suggesting a single-site mechanism. The interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface and the P:V ratio's effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are critical for understanding the complex alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Zn-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at Brnsted acid sites. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn species facilitate reversible CH bond breaking, with alkanes dissociatively adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites activate alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to the need for optimal metal center coordination (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity in heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition (Quote 5). Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity (Quotes 6 and 7). These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, influenced by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is dependent on the terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic species, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, impacting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Preparation methods and oxide support phases do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of surface vanadia species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing composition and conditions for higher yields. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Optimal ethene and propene formation rates occur at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest olefin yields are obtained at the highest possible reaction temperatures on catalysts with isolated monovanadates. Persistent controversies in the field are attributed to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion in the MTG process. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation to form reactive GaO+ ions, is crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of planes, and V5+ reduction extent are affected by preparation techniques. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, aiding V4+ stability. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, improving efficiency over time.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. In the oxidation of benzene to phenol, nearly 100% selectivity is achieved at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are recognized for their efficiency, with activity enhancement observed by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ions supported HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions enable methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed in concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing acidity with a Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These species are crucial for catalytic efficiency, enabling reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, affect selectivity and conversion. Mild reaction conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields make these catalysts economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting onto dried HZSM-5, followed by calcination, yielding highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This process, unlike aqueous impregnation, avoids MoO3 aggregates, resulting in isolated MoO42species. The catalyst's efficiency in MPO is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the supported phase, with formaldehyde selectivity improved due to the specific activity of these species. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, given natural gas reserves and the compounds' utility in fuel and synthetic organic methods. The CH bond's weakness, caused by methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity. The new catalyst's structure and composition, achieved through grafting, offer potential for efficient catalysis in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, are larger than experimentally observed for supported vanadia. More complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Reducing others, such as for propane adsorption, likely requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using catalysts like ZSM-5, central to processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite modify the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity influence efficiency. Multifunctionality alone is insufficient. These factors are key to the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and liquid fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method, posing a significant catalysis science challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5 zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Metal cation addition boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. Reaction conditions, including temperature and a carbenium ion mechanism, contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure influence CH bond activation and propene production. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate CH bonds, but the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, making it unsuitable. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Ethane activation over zinc-modified HZSM-5 involves strong polarizability and heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, ethane activation on gallium-modified HZSM-5 is weaker, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions in dehydrogenation processes, affecting efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition, highlighting the need for optimized catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. Cracking to C1-C2 products occurs concurrently. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. These species facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for propene formation and H2 production without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity in aromatization reactions while reducing cracking turnover rates. This selective H-atom removal contributes to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction, significantly impacting industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene involves two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps). The alternative carbenium route has a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). Alkanes dehydrogenate to alkenes in the first step of aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations in zeolites play a crucial role in alkane aromatization, enhancing selectivity for commercial processes like the Cyclar process.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace traditional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are key for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation. Silica optimally supports these species for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing but selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts with tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower V loadings, show higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while those with octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, exhibit greater activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brnsted at high loadings, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites participating without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), demonstrate differing efficiencies in alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, as evidenced by XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction pathways. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly than carbon dioxide, but formaldehyde and carbon dioxide formation is quicker than with hydrogen form catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts benefits from isolated active sites, with isomorphous substitution into microporous and mesoporous materials as a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane ODH, VOx-SBA-15 systems with a large concentration of accessible, isolated active sites perform well. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, controlled by feed redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, is crucial. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, with Vw reduction and Vv availability governing selectivity. Catalyst preparation methods determine redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion rates. Vanadium phosphorus oxides (PVO) exhibit phase interconversion, with preparation variables affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio, crucial for optimal performance, influences selectivity and activity. Active phases like vanadyl pyrophosphate are key in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. PVO's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane selectivity. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varied surface effects, with oxygen balances revealing the role of Vv phosphate as an oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. This shifts the equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated species, enhancing catalytic dehydrogenation of ethane. Dimeric gallium species facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by factors including monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their high selectivity in activating paraffins, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. Polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading, decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with monomeric species show specificity for formaldehyde production, despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol, proceeds with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of catalytic activity, the role of iron, and the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix. These insights suggest promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, influencing active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 catalysts achieve methane aromatization. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation method, support nature, and environmental conditions, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower coverages, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with a high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These active species and acidity levels are crucial for the efficiency of alkane transformations. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, also influence catalytic performance. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to catalyze reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, which are vital for the petrochemical industry, offering mild reaction conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After grafting and calcination, the catalyst forms highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation is crucial for converting methane, abundant in natural gas, into methanol or formaldehyde, key components for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde yield is improved by the specific activity of isolated MoO42species, highlighting the catalyst's efficiency. The grafting method avoids water, yielding dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reduces it.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are larger than experimentally observed values for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and more complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics using catalysts like ZSM-5, with BTX selectivity improved by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen on Zn-ZSM-5. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at reaction temperatures. This conversion, central to processes converting light gases to aromatics, faces selectivity challenges with light alkenes also being formed.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms for regioselectivity involve propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation [1]. The isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix is essential [2]. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and a mechanism explanation tool [5][6], yet it's insufficient alone [7]. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity also impact efficiency [8][9]. Product stability is another critical factor. These elements are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and non-oxidizing conditions for methane conversion. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production, with Mo and Zn playing a significant role in methane activation. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, demonstrating the influence of reaction conditions. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc-modified catalysts form acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane at room temperature and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, ethane adsorption on gallium is weak, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures and gallium dihydride species, without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. For instance, FePO4 is used for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics. Enhancing selectivity and extending catalyst life remain key objectives in catalyst development for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and crystallites with increasing surface density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom increase with VOx surface density, peaking on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for, and similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local concentration depletion favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. The radical-chain reaction initiation on ZSM-5-H remains speculative, but electron transfer processes and radical species generation on high silica zeolites are known.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium enhance aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for H2 formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', improving efficiency by allowing acid sites to turnover without forming cracking products, increasing propene and aromatic yields while reducing by-products. This selective H-atom removal contributes to high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the zinc cation facilitating the alkyl route. Activation energies for the three steps in the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The carbenium route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol is a studied route to replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, impacted by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits are crucial. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic activity. Metal loading, such as Ru, Pt, and W, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly influence catalytic behavior. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition affect zeolite properties. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, with various active sites proposed. Carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities due to its stabilization of isolated centers. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, involving alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, with metalalkyl intermediates playing a key role. These zeolites can activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly aromatize methane. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but selectivity is greater with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting catalytic efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites. The second abstraction can happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, not affecting overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity, with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    