Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity. Basic oxides inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction and the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface and the role of lattice oxygen in the oxidation process highlight the complex dynamics of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing conversion is controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at acid sites, and Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. The effect of Zn on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is direct.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, as spectroscopy and theory develop structure-activity relationships. In high-silica zeolites, multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to optimal metal center coordination, driving oligomerization of isolated GaO+. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ and decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen facilitate H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, and acidity. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds in hydrocarbon oxidation is significant, with bridging V-O-support bonds appearing critical. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, but activation energies are similar for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with vanadia density for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reactivity. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density and monovanadate species show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates and high temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affect alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5 over HZSM-5. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. The first, prepared by conventional impregnation, yielded tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) led to polymolybdate dominance, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, had well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but lowered formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts showed higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting monomeric Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, including Fe-containing ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts for selective oxidation reactions, particularly in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites proceeds with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in catalyst efficiency. This promising direction in hydroxylation of aromatics can lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions improve activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation is a challenge. CH bond splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina, vanadium loadings dictate the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies examine vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields optimal propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, along with reaction conditions, significantly influence the efficiency and selectivity of alkane transformations. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to catalyze reactions such as the MTG process, olefin production from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, crucial for methane activation by weakening the CH bond. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure was confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance spectra and XPS analysis, indicating the presence of MoO42species. XRD spectra showed no aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The high CO selectivity of Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde industrially attractive for liquid fuel production and synthetic organic methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and more complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. The involvement of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts is crucial for reducing barriers, particularly for propane adsorption, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons using metal-based catalysts. Higher alkanes undergo conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, central to processes converting light gases to aromatics, employs catalysts like ZSM-5. While light alkanes transform to aromatics, light alkenes also form. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts, preferred for zinc's stability at reaction temperatures, operate similarly.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, altering the mechanism to favor hydrogen removal. This modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting a unique H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's role shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrates high activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, enhancing dehydrogenation and aromatization. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. The efficiency of alkane transformations is influenced by the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, reaction conditions, and a carbenium ion mechanism, contributing to their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc-modified HZSM-5 exhibits strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified HZSM-5 shows weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene through dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, aiming for higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Mechanistically, dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. The apparent activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity slightly increased. The initiation of radical-chain reactions over ZSM-5-H is speculative. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ up to limits set by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes and cycloalkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by boosting conversion rates, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen. Ga and Zn allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing aromatic turnover and decreasing cracking turnover. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, which is crucial for industrial processes. By removing H-atoms from acid sites, Ga and Zn increase propene formation and reduce by-product formation, leading to higher yields of desired products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Two routes of ethane activation were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol, potentially replacing the conventional three-step process, is widely studied. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbonaceous deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower in butane than in ethane. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: increased temperature and longer contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support significantly affects reactivity and selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting ODH performance; alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts involves isolating active sites, with isomorphous substitution of active metals into microporous materials being a promising strategy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity trends with Mo surface density, with domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation steps, but increasing propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state change depends on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. A two-step reaction mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalysts' redox properties vary with preparation methods. At low conversion, similar selectivity is observed, but at high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Oxygen balances in C4 alkene oxidation show the Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with differences in reactivity and interaction between but-1-ene and n-butane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond breakage and formation. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to the need for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions are affected by the reducing power of hydrocarbons and the specific oxide support. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species, specifically the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethene and propene formation rates are influenced by vanadia surface density, with propene formation being about eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces impact reaction rates and selectivity. Isolated monovanadate structures at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have been reported with inconsistent results, highlighting the need for detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; additives, preventing overoxidation; and activation conditions. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective paraffin activation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts influence alkane transformations. Two series were tested: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and another by aqueous impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) increases polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts lower methane conversion but increase formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This process offers promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen aim to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' effect on catalysts has been studied, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component can enhance catalyst performance. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. The introduction of metals leads to the formation of strong Lewis acid sites and regeneration of Brnsted acid sites, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Reaction conditions also influence the nature of active species and catalytic performance. The presence of these active species and acidity are vital for efficient alkane transformations, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, with highly dispersed MoO42species, improves formaldehyde selectivity, crucial for converting methane into methanol or formaldehyde, attractive processes due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism involves the weakness of the CH bond in methane, facilitated by zeolite surface interaction, leading to methane activation. The dispersed MoO42species, obtained by avoiding water presence, are key to the catalyst's efficiency. The new grafted Mo/HZSM-5 catalyst, with isolated molybdenum oxo species in oxidation state VI, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, are notably higher than experimental values for supported vanadia, indicating the need for more complex reaction mechanisms, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barrier reduction appears to require the involvement of a support, highlighting the significance of catalyst support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkane conversion, especially methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, is a focal point in catalytic research. Higher alkanes can undergo conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, central to Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, uses catalysts like ZSM-5 to convert light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element for selective oxidation is highlighted [1], with the isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix being critical [2]. Product stability, multifunctionality [4], C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9] are key factors. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion [5] and a mechanism explanation tool [6], though it's not solely sufficient [7]. These elements are fundamental to the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically for methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity, crucial for methane activation. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging O atoms activate CH bonds, with the latter being more conducive for propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. This difference in alkane activation directly impacts hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition. These factors are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for, and are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates can aromatize dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments significantly affect catalyst performance for ethane dehydrogenation. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active state for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These species facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This improves efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. Ga and Zn species boost propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products and enhancing yields of desired products. Their role in recombinative desorption contributes to the extraction of valuable H2 with high selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step in Zn-doped zeolites is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts increase selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits are pivotal. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support, stabilizing isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation via subsequent H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion to ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ -Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, but selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts with lower V loading exhibit VO4 tetrahedra, while higher loading favors VO6 octahedra. Octahedral V5+ species boost activity, yet tetrahedral V5+ species enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature also varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, as highlighted in enzymatic reactions and technological applications. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) in framework sites, supports these reactions, with distinct outcomes depending on the catalyst form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal under reaction conditions, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, while optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size, balancing surface VOx species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, with higher reduction leading to higher selectivity. Using N2O instead of O2 promotes a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and the specific oxide support. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The selectivity order follows the increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface dynamics and modifications are crucial for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. The production of maleic anhydride involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity and activity. In vanadium phosphorus oxide systems, the P:V ratio and crystalline phases influence catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, a mechanism subject to debate. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly affecting alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to coordination optimization (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit significant reactivity towards heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and (3+) species in reducing environments. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is dependent on the specific hydrocarbon and oxide support, with isolated species on silica showing greater stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but interacting additives like niobia can increase the turnover frequency (TOF) for certain reactions, while basic additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, decreasing TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction affects sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities, influenced by the presence of isolated monovanadate species, which yield high alkene selectivity at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity are linked to acid-base properties. Detailed kinetic analysis and structural characterization of vanadia/alumina catalysts with varying surface densities showed that two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form as surface density increases, affecting reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yields are obtained with catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity, requiring high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1 for high alkene yields.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, such as light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 is enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation, forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective paraffin activation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous impregnation followed by ammonia washing, exhibit distinct activity in methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional preparation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading, which block zeolite channels and decrease dispersion. These species are more reactive in methane activation but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts, with a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. These catalysts demonstrate nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion, influenced by the nature of catalytic activity, iron's role, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's characteristics. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial in many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst. Adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhances catalyst activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ions supported HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component's addition is studied to improve activity or stability. The CH bond's splitting in methane is due to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with a high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, identified by spectroscopy, which increase acidity and the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. These sites are crucial for catalytic activity, selectivity, and conversion of alkanes. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production of olefins, aromatics, and other petrochemicals.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation is significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectroscopy confirmed the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra showed highly dispersed oxo species, distinct from aggregated MoO3 found in aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are larger than those experimentally observed for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers might require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency. These insights are critical for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatization processes, converting light gases to BTX aromatics with ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity for aromatics is incomplete, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, like Zn/H-MFI zeolite, significantly impact efficiency. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation by favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms explain regioselectivity: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride from another propane molecule, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites change the exchange mechanism, leading to methyl group regioselectivity in propane. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity all enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality, though essential, is not solely adequate. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and fuels, using Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. The efficiency of alkane transformations is influenced by catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, indicating the need for a balance in catalyst properties for efficient oxidative dehydrogenation. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: strong ethane adsorption by zinc results in heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, weak ethane adsorption on gallium leads to dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. This difference impacts hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. For instance, FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite demonstrate the effects of these factors in the production of CH3OH, HCHO, and conversion of methane to aromatics, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As surface density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures, but turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering structural differences. Rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and local concentration, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, comparable to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes and dienes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates can aromatize specific alkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. Aromatics/methane selectivity indicates these rates. Pretreatments significantly affect catalyst performance for ethane dehydrogenation. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate hydrogen disposal, catalyzing recombinative desorption to form dihydrogen, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, contributing to industrial significance by increasing desired product yields and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation processes. Two distinct routes for ethane activation were identified: one involving alkyl activation of a CH bond and the other carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with the rupture of the ethane CH bond, facilitated by zinc cations acting as acceptors. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde or methanol, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation efficiency through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance performance. Metal-zeolite interactions and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are critical for catalytic activity and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Certain metals like Ru and Pt improve reactivity and stability, while V and Li have a negative effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature also influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly affect catalytic efficiency. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for reaction comprehension. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction impact catalytic behavior. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a challenge for process development. Understanding Mo species' real status and role in the reaction pathway is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for butane's oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at higher loads, with octahedral V5+ species showing higher activity but lower selectivity than tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity, and methanol concentration decreases at elevated temperatures due to further oxidation. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures, and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, while enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the catalyst's working state dynamics are crucial for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps, controlled by vanadium's valence state, determine selectivity and efficiency. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with optimal performance at high conversion for more oxidizable catalysts. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affects catalytic activity and selectivity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and specific P:V ratio enhance n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, influencing product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing conversion remains controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond activation predominantly occurs at acid sites. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane adsorption. For high Zn content zeolites, Zn alkyl species form at small ZnO clusters. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups, facilitating H/D exchange. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds. This mechanism explains the enhanced conversion of alkanes to aromatics on Zn-modified zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to coordination optimization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer surface coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments affect the oxidation states of surface vanadia species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity are linked to the acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects on ethane and propane reactions have shown inconsistencies, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. A detailed kinetic analysis on vanadia/alumina samples with a wide range of surface densities was conducted, contrasting ethane and propane results. The analysis was combined with structural characterization to relate local structure to rate constants. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have been reported with inconsistent results, contributing to ongoing controversies.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Gallium in ZSM-5, upon oxidation, forms reactive gallyl ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and optimal catalyst composition has a slight excess of phosphorus, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations during conditioning also impact performance. These factors are critical for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) decreased dispersion and blocked zeolite channels. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but reduced formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The best results, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol, highlight the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This promising direction could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial in many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures around 873 K. High vanadium loadings and temperatures enhance the formation of vanadium oxide species on alumina, impacting phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion. Propene selectivity is maximized with dispersed isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The catalyst's preparation involves washing, drying, and calcination, resulting in isolated MoO42species. XPS analysis and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of these species. The catalyst's structure and composition, influenced by the reaction conditions, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations. The high dispersion of MoO42species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation methods, contribute to its superior performance. The catalyst's specific activity and the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface lead to high CO selectivity. This innovation is industrially significant due to the conversion of methane into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires vanadium oxide catalyst support, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using metal-based catalysts. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, with ZSM-5 catalysts. Alkane conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in the regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in methyl groups of propane, with distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations' mechanisms and efficiency. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity influence process efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation tool, though not sufficient alone. These factors are pivotal for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane using Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts is a promising method for natural gas utilization, addressing a significant challenge in catalysis science. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and the addition of metal cations to ZSM-5 significantly improves catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling efficient methane conversion to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. For instance, DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are crucial for selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion processes, where there's a demand for catalysts with higher selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples used for producing CH3OH, HCHO, and converting methane to aromatics. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary propene oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen depletion favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 allows gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments. Aromatics yields are enhanced by adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. These species facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and improving propene formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen and increasing aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by enhancing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor, and computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for their ability to enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen showed formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are critical. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Channel structure, acidity of HZSM-5, and Mo species' valence and location are key factors for catalytic performance. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation are major research focuses, impacting process development. Understanding Mo species' role in reaction pathways is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being most reactive, confirmed by DFT calculations favoring H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation and direct aromatization of methane, with mechanisms involving metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with loading, but selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Octahedral species enhance activity, but tetrahedral species improve selectivity. Acid sites' nature changes with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring methane conversion but decreasing methanol concentration due to further oxidation. The structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit different reaction speed patterns for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with the sodium form favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. Their performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Catalysts' selectivity peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Support materials like silica, alumina, and titania affect selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with stronger MoO bonds exhibiting lower activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting reduction and influencing catalytic properties, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by redox properties, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity, with a two-step mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation by Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with the PVO system showing variable crystalline phases. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity but decreasing activity. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the PVO system's active site, oxidation state, and structure. Different PVO phases, like a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance, with the optimal V4+/V5+ ratio crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride supported by high surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkane conversion to aromatics with high selectivity. Controversy surrounds the role of metal species and acid sites in this process. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn species facilitate reversible CH bond cleavage. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites boost aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, and spectroscopy and theory develop structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, promoting ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination of Ga3+ and decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen aid H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure of these species is determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, influenced by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species are stable under reducing environments, transforming into vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds is critical, with the latter being associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites needed for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting both reactivity and selectivity. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure play crucial roles. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to activate and transform light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation and extend operational life, further boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Optimal alkene yields are achieved at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, on catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadates. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density and predominately monovanadate structures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation to form reactive GaO+ ions, is crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5 over HZSM-5. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratios, stabilizing (VO)P207; and additives, impacting oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or ammonia washing, influence methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields monomeric and polymolybdate species, with higher molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) favoring polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's characteristics. This process offers promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced performance through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, impacting activity and stability. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production, followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, an alternative direct conversion route, has been widely studied since 1982. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been investigated, as has methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, and vanadium loadings, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors are critical for the efficiency of alkane transformations. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential for the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly influence alkane transformations. This catalyst, after washing, drying, and calcination, shows enhanced activity in MPO reactions compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to organic compounds, particularly methanol and formaldehyde, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The activation mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, which are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Reducing others, particularly for propane adsorption, likely requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with ZSM-5 being pivotal in processes like aromatization to BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, demonstrating the influence of catalyst composition on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences the regioselective H/D exchange of propane through incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix enhances efficiency. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These elements are crucial for the industrial viability of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemicals or fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method and a catalysis science challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Metal cation addition boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. Reaction conditions, including temperature and a carbenium ion mechanism, contribute to the industrial importance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O site is too active for propene release, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation leads to Brnsted acid proton formation, unlike gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species. These differences crucially affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the type of support (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, akin to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio indicating these rates. Catalysts for high aromatic yields often include rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium in zeolites, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom disposal, forming dihydrogen, and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn species boost H2 formation and propene production, improving selectivity and reducing cracking by-products. This efficiency is critical in industrial processes, contributing to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Two distinct routes of ethane activation were identified: the first involves alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second starts with carbenium activation. The dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes is the initial step in aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with the ethane CH bond rupture, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol, potentially replacing the conventional process, is widely studied. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, using molecular oxygen, shows selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance efficiency. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbonaceous deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals like Ru and Pt improve reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, impacting reaction mechanisms. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations. The Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen) influence methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the sodium form enhancing selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For vanadium oxide catalysts, activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 promotes a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and support type. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and influencing CH bond activation steps. Basic dopants enhance selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is balanced by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties, selectivity, and activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system forms various crystalline phases, with the P:V ratio and defect structure influencing catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves a single-site process under high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing structure-activity relationships. Extraframework gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit optimal coordination, driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo species cleave CH bonds, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support phase, is crucial. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface coverage. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity differently, depending on the specific reaction. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, enabling the activation and transformation of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, yielding higher product yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions. At low surface densities, monovanadate structures connected to the support via VOAl bonds are prevalent, while higher densities form polyvanadates and three-dimensional structures. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly gallium in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts. These catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. For instance, they convert benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant's characteristics. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 excels in this process, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Catalysts' performance is influenced by zeolite micropore modification and the sequence of transition metal activity: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Surface oxygen species interact with CH4, facilitating CH bond splitting. Direct conversion routes, including methanol and formaldehyde production, and indirect synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, are viable. Oxidative coupling of methane and non-oxidative conditions have been explored to suppress CO and CO2 formation. Catalyst preparation and treatment methods significantly impact efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is strongly exothermic, reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors are crucial for the efficiency of alkane transformations. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The CH bond's weakness, caused by zeolite surface interaction, initiates methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm MoO42species presence. XRD spectra show highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregates found in aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's isolated MoO42species enhance formaldehyde yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state somewhat lowers these barriers. More complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, could further reduce barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex-like processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Alkane-to-aromatic conversion isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal over deuterium. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium, as the preferred element, and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix, enhance selective oxidation. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and liquid fuel, using Mo modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 under non-oxidizing conditions is facilitated by a carbenium ion mechanism. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling efficient methane conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O site is too active for propene release, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium results in ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation have direct consequences for hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial significance of these catalysts is in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are impacted by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate the influence of these factors on performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. Secondary propene oxidation rates are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with cracking to C1-C2 products as a concurrent reaction. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. The apparent activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes and cycloalkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for propene and aromatic formation. These species act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting propene yield. Sequential H-atom release limits reaction rates and selectivity, but Ga and Zn improve H2 formation via recombinative desorption, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This increases aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, which is vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing zeolite selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. Metal ion-zeolite interactions and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits are critical. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Certain metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo and second metal addition impact zeolite's catalytic properties. Methane activation's mechanism remains debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity but peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, favoring selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affect selectivity and activity, with Lewis sites dominant at lower loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted sites present at higher loadings. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, with the second possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, with secondary hydrogen abstraction at VOSi sites not affecting overall kinetics. Bulk vanadia surfaces are more active than monomers on silica in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves conversion but reduces selectivity to methanol. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, as evidenced by XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    