Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported vanadium oxides are more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity, with the selectivity order following increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalyst design for efficient alkane oxidative dehydrogenation involves isolating active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, significantly affects product formation. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion yielding the best performance. The P:V ratio significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. Understanding these factors is vital for optimizing alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species that facilitate H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable under various environments, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, affecting their oxidation states. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support does. Surface acidity changes upon surface vanadia species formation, impacting reactivity. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is significantly influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, leading to enhanced product selectivity under optimized conditions. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending their life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene production is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities due to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly influence alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods that affect morphology and V5+ reduction (Quote 1, 2). P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, with a slight excess of phosphorus enhancing performance (Quote 10, 22). Morphology impacts oxidizability, with additives improving selectivity (Quote 12, 15). Low-temperature treatment and surface transformations during conditioning are also crucial for selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, were assessed in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Elevated molybdenum loadings (>1.3 wt.%) reduced dispersion and obstructed channels, impacting activity. Polymolybdate species facilitated higher methane conversion but decreased formaldehyde selectivity, whereas ammonia-treated catalysts with monomeric species showed lower conversion but enhanced selectivity, underscoring Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity at moderate conversion rates, demonstrating the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts catalyst efficiency. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metals follow the activity sequence Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species' efficiency is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings on alumina surfaces yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches max temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species boosts propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation, form active species that boost catalytic efficiency. The acidity ratio, particularly the Lewis to Brnsted acid sites in Zn/ZSM-5, significantly influences selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and olefin manufacture from methanol, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) significantly enhances activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and acetylacetonate ligands yields highly dispersed MoO42species, boosting formaldehyde yield in MPO. Methane's CH bond weakness, due to zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence, while XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to the catalyst's performance, enhancing CO selectivity. The new catalyst greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The necessity of a support in vanadium oxide catalysts for propane adsorption underscores its role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic research targets light alkane conversion, focusing on methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes, like propane and butane, independently undergo conversion to alkenes, crucial in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity in alkane to aromatic conversion is limited, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, excel in alkane transformations (Quote 2). Multifunctionality is pivotal for catalyst design and mechanism understanding, yet not solely sufficient (Quotes 5-7). Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes hinges on C-H bond activation (Quote 8), acidity/basicity (Quote 9), and product stability, underscoring industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure: low pressure favors hydrogen evolution, while high pressure promotes hydrogenolysis. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane partial pressures increase benzene yields, supported by a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) can activate CH bonds, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production, highlighting the need for a balance in CH bond activation and propene release for ideal catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, yielding Brnsted acid protons. Gallium, however, weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation without Brnsted acid protons. These activation differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity in valuable product production.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing product selectivity and catalyst longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are significantly influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition, making them critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-Zn's dehydrogenation is in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H's rate-controlled mechanism. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Different aromatization mechanisms, including hydrogen generation by ZSM-5-Zn and hydride transfer by ZSM-5-H, explain the varied behavior. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity; ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, crucial for processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and boost propene formation by deactivating acid sites. This improves efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, significantly impacting industrial yields by maximizing desired products and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and metal loading significantly affect catalyst efficiency, as evidenced by high formaldehyde selectivity at low methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Studies confirm that formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' location and valence, are critical for catalytic performance. Loading Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr boosts reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a detrimental effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact performance. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' introduction changes zeolite acid sites, influencing reaction pathways. Understanding Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on fully covered oxide surfaces, especially with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where terminal oxo species of VV surface species are the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, involving complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, particularly those containing Mo or Zn, can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature and number vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These factors are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, particularly monomeric species on silica, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation, activating CH bonds critical for industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with vanadyl sites playing a crucial role in the rate-determining step. Recent DFT calculations suggest enhanced activity of vanadia sites when part of the bulk surface, indicating their significance in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature is critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe(III) incorporation into the framework affects reaction pathways, as confirmed by XRD patterns. Sodium form Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also speeds up its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to hydrogen form Fe-ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is dictated by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from optimal VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O yielding a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, influences selectivity by reducing propane combustion. Efficient catalyst design for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation requires isolated active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials as promising strategies. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts have catalytic properties and selectivity influenced by MoOx domain size and dopant effects, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the P:V ratio control selectivity and activity, with oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps influenced by V oxidation states. High Vv content leads to carbon oxides, while selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high efficiency. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. This synergy between Zn and Brnsted sites promotes efficient alkane conversion to aromatics by facilitating alkane CH bond activation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, fostering these relationships. GaO+ species oligomerize into multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is significantly influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are completely reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer on oxide supports, such as A1203, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb205, and CeO2, is essential for industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the oxidation state, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing only one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, while those requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Optimizing active sites, acidity, and pore structure enhances yield and selectivity, making light alkanes more valuable under mild conditions, thereby extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts demonstrate enhanced propene formation rates, approximately eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities exhibit the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for achieving high alkene yields include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207 and prevents V4+ oxidation. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and surface transformations during conditioning enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Mo loading and species, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. Higher Mo loading promotes polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. These species are more reactive in methane activation but yield low formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, hinges on zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant properties, underscoring the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additives. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitate higher hydrocarbon formation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation method, support nature, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches optimal temperatures above 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity and are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga, Fe, and Zn-modified HZSM-5, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The progressive increase in the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites (HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5) enhances catalytic activity, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant, catalyzing reactions like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild reaction conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Prepared through washing, drying, and calcining, the catalyst yields [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane's conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, critical for fuel and organic synthesis, is significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with the CH bond's weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting results in isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence. XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites. The new catalyst's specific MoO42activity outshines impregnated catalysts in formaldehyde yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental observations. Complex reactions, like the concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, and using a support for vanadium oxide, notably enhancing propane adsorption, can lower these barriers, improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes, transforming light gases to BTX aromatics in processes. Conversion isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and promoting hydrogen removal from propane's methyl groups. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a quasi-inert matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity, critical for industrial alkane transformations. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, yet its inadequacy alone underscores the importance of considering all factors.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate superior performance in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, highlighting the industrial value of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, showcasing high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, single-crystal V2O5(001) demonstrates that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate CH bonds, but an efficient catalyst must balance this activation with propene release, highlighting the industrial importance of selectively oxidizing alkanes into valuable olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency in alkane transformations. Zinc facilitates strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, yielding Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to high-temperature dissociation into ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride species instead of Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms affect hydrocarbon conversion selectivity, highlighting the industrial value of these catalysts in selectively converting alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, exemplified by FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, is pivotal for enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, are influenced by reaction conditions (pretreatment, temperature, additives), the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure, and are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, enhancing BTX formation at higher space velocities due to hydrogen depletion. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+, significantly impact aromatization activity and selectivity for alkane transformations. Reduced catalysts are active for propane aromatization but less selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics compared to reoxidized materials. Optimal, dispersed Ga3+ is generated at 550C, enhancing ethane aromatization under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatic yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations, notably propane dehydrogenation, by accelerating conversion rates and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption. They prevent cracking, boost propene and aromatic yields, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Alkyl activation is favored due to lower activation barriers. Aromatization involves initial dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, with activation energies for key steps at 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is a studied alternative. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies on W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveal formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The interaction of Mo and transition metals with zeolite supports influences aromatics and carbon deposits. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are vital for catalytic performance. Metals like Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P reduce it. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The introduction of Mo and a second metal changes zeolite acid sites, affecting the reaction mechanism. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity due to small clusters and isolated sites. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C, where lower temperatures favor combustion and higher temperatures promote unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, involving oxidation of the alkane and reduction of metal oxo surface species. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity (>90%).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency; activity rises and selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic efficiency. These insights underscore the critical role of vanadium species and acid sites in optimizing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Higher iron content significantly boosts methane conversion, achieving up to 31.51% conversion (Quote 6). The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7), while optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity, around 74%, is attained with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C but diminishes at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11 and 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at monolayer active phase loading. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, influences selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds reduce activity. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. A two-step process converts alkanes to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The P:V ratio in the vanadium phosphorus oxide system is critical for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated in the products being higher in the but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkane conversion to aromatics with high selectivity. The metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatization. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond breakage. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites, forming Zn-alkyl species that enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes in high-silica zeolites enhancing activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations promote ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination in dimers facilitates H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolites, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the behavior of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence their reactivity. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while noninteracting additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives impact the selectivity of hydro- carbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing key roles. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Initial alkene selectivity is highest with isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites boosts alkane transformation efficiency, with Ga/ZSM-5 oxidation by nitrous oxide forming reactive gallyl ions, enhancing dehydrogenation. Steam stabilizes GaO+, and water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods that affect morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios that stabilize (VO)P207, and additives that impact oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by Mo loading and species. At >1.3 wt.% Mo, polymolybdate species predominate, reducing dispersion and blocking HZSM-5 channels. Monomeric species in treated catalysts, despite lower methane conversion, enhance formaldehyde selectivity, demonstrating specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with notable selectivity. This exemplifies the influence of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features on catalyst performance in alkane transformations, showcasing advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Enhanced activity is achieved by incorporating Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been a focus for improving catalysts. Oxygen's role in methane oxidation drives efforts to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect routes involve synthesis gas production. Oxidative coupling of methane has been extensively studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 showcases the catalyst's effectiveness. Surface oxygen's interaction with CH4 is crucial for CH bond splitting. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation is explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization. Challenges include managing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation methods and conditions, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing catalytic properties. VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species boosts propane oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower activity. Phase composition, coordination, and dispersion are key for catalytic performance at high temperatures and vanadium loadings, as observed in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga, Fe, and Zn-modified HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The acidity order, HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis sites strongest in Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, boosts catalytic efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) surpasses classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After grafting and calcination, the catalyst features highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane's conversion to methanol and formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The CH bond's weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, activates methane. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm MoO42species, indicating successful grafting. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's isolated MoO42species boost formaldehyde production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are reduced by considering a triplet state. The barriers are larger than those for supported vanadia, suggesting complex reactions like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination could lower them. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, underscoring the importance of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. This conversion, though not fully selective, yields BTX components and light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. Light alkanes are also transformed into methanol or higher hydrocarbons, and higher alkanes can be converted without co-reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, enhancing hydrogen removal through two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, demonstrating the catalyst's efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, favored for selective alkane oxidation, are pivotal in transformations. Isolating vanadium ions in a stable matrix and ensuring product stability enhance efficiency [1-3]. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms [4-6], though not solely sufficient [7]. C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes [8-9].", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. This is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high efficiency in converting methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, with excellent catalytic activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, and benzene yield increases with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the role of metal cations in improving ZSM-5's catalytic activity for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in V2O5 play a role in CH bond activation, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release to address the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalyze alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures for heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for hydrocarbon conversions in industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and catalyst longevity. Efficiency is contingent on pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal form, and feed composition, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). The process involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it is rate-controlled. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism that produces paraffins. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, as reoxidation yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, and high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes and cycloalkenes at high temperatures. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization. They act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal and enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This boosts propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking, increasing H2 formation, and improving efficiency, which is industrially significant for maximizing desired product yields and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and less favorable carbenium activation due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with alkane dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor in the CH bond rupture mechanism, highlighting the efficiency of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels, particularly through direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde, is a promising but challenging process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as evidenced by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity are dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the interaction between metal ions, particularly Mo species, and zeolite support, which is crucial for catalytic performance and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading, such as Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhances reactivity and stability, while pre-treatments and specific reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic performance. Acid sites alteration by Mo species and the addition of a second metal component affects zeolite's activity. Challenges include understanding methane activation mode and managing heavy carbonaceous deposit formation, which hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity. A narrow temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with VV surface sites' terminal oxo species being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane transformations. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at lower loadings enhance selectivity, while higher loadings favor octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, impacting selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves initial hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces are more active than silica-supported monomers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, as recent DFT calculations indicate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are critical in alkane transformations. Higher iron content significantly increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are key: higher values enhance methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. For instance, the highest methane conversion of 31.51% was observed with Fe-ZSM-5 having the largest iron content. Introducing the sodium form of molecular sieves increased the selectivity of methane oxidation to oxygenates. The increase of temperature results in the rise of methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal rates per vanadium atom. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania. Active VOx domains' properties can be altered by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but boost propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxides are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increasing with Mo surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly affecting mechanisms and efficiency. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, dependent on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst's oxidation/reduction rates, is crucial for selectivity. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are pivotal. Two reaction steps are identified: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, influenced by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, plays a crucial role in reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The PVO system exhibits rich intercalation chemistry, affecting catalytic performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, influencing the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn and Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst Brnsted acid sites, promoting alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance (Muylaert and Van Der Voort, 2009). In zeolites, isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing coordination and reactivity (Boronat et al., 2009). Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts dehydrogenation activity by increasing reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments (Valencia et al., 2009), highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is significantly influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The reactivity of these species is predominantly associated with the dehydrated V(5+) form, with the bridging V-O-support bond playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting the turnover frequency (TOF). Noninteracting metal oxide additives can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting mechanisms and efficiency through active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Their industrial value lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, with novel regeneration methods mitigating deactivation, a critical factor for catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Additives, like Zn2+, prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation methods influence methane conversion to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Impregnation followed by ammonia washing creates a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion. Monomeric Mo=O species are critical for formaldehyde production, as demonstrated by the higher selectivity in treated catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their efficiency in alkane transformations. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This progress could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolite catalysts are crucial for methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports enhances activity, as revealed by studies. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen, minimizing CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored for improved catalysis. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites is effective, though coke formation poses a challenge. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, vanadium loadings, and environmental conditions. At lower loadings, VO4 units form, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity in exothermic propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5, enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with their effectiveness following the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. The strength of Lewis sites impacts efficiency, with Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, crucial for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This is attributed to the presence of highly dispersed MoO42species, formed by reacting the complex with surface OH groups without water, preventing MoO3 aggregation. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the weak CH bond due to zeolite surface interaction, is industrially significant given natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with residual acid sites affecting CO selectivity. The specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making this catalyst superior for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, but O2 adsorption and support involvement lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are critical in converting light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes. Processes like aromatization to BTX components are not fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their thermal stability, essential for efficient alkane transformations, as zinc volatilization occurs at high temperatures in zinc-only samples.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane through strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Its mechanism, involving dehydrogenation, protonation, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption, differs from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for propane-d8. This highlights the efficiency gains from Zn modification in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with vanadium isolated in a quasi-inert matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and understanding reaction mechanisms, yet not solely sufficient. These insights are critical for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, critical for converting light alkanes to aromatics in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating potential for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and benzene yield, with higher methane partial pressure boosting performance. A carbenium ion mechanism underlies the dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, underlining the industrial importance of these metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency of these processes is influenced by the distinction between terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, affecting CH bond activation. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to excessive activity at the terminal O, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the industrial need for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions and reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite examples illustrate the impact of these factors on the conversion of CH3OH, HCHO, and methane to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Propene formation and secondary oxidation rates are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments significantly influence gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized materials are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reduced Ga/ZSM-5, generating dispersed Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates and H2 production through recombinative desorption, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking turnover, improving reaction rates and selectivities, which is crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and less favorable carbenium activation. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism. Activation energies for key steps highlight process efficiency, crucial for industrial aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at low methane conversion. Formaldehyde selectivity in W/HZSM-5 catalysts relates to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the interaction of Mo species with HZSM-5 zeolite, their valence and location, and the loading of metals like Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, which enhance reactivity and stability. Preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions significantly impact performance. The alteration of acid sites by Mo species and second metals affects zeolite activity, impacting alkane transformation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, are crucial for selective alkane transformations, especially for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities due to its stabilization of isolated centers. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially relevant, catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization of methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with peak selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity favors ethene over butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at low loadings and octahedral at high loadings influence selectivity, with higher oxydehydrogenation selectivity on tetrahedral species. Acid sites, predominantly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also impact efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, mirroring enzymatic CH bond activation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, catalyzed by monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, features exclusive first hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, maintaining overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity when integrated into the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity to oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Selectivity for methane to methanol is best with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity, as observed with Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Higher V2O5 loading in vanadium oxide catalysts enhances activity, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of vanadium reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with optimal reactivity at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformations through redox properties that alter the catalyst surface, affecting product formation. A two-step mechanism is involved in maleic anhydride synthesis: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, followed by further oxidation dependent on Vv availability. High Vv content risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods, including solvent type, influence crystallinity and defect structure, impacting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio is pivotal, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio improves n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic performance. A single-site mechanism supports selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit distinct kinetic behaviors, suggesting unique catalyst surface effects, with Vv phosphate serving as the oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond cleavage. Zn species interact with alkanes inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that promote dehydrogenation and H/D exchange. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization, with Zn influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the formation of Zn alkyl species upon alkane adsorption, which precedes H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces enhance reactivity, with GaO+ species forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in hydrocarbon oxidation, with the latter being critical for reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of reactions is reaction-specific and influenced by additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts efficiently convert light alkanes into aromatics and isomers, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances transformation efficiency, improving yields and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates notably higher than ethene at given temperatures. Optimal alkene yield is achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by the local structure of supported VOx domains. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces affect reaction rates and selectivity. Higher vanadia surface densities lead to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with isolated cations or extraframework oxygen atoms playing a role. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the efficiency of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios stabilizing (VO)P207, morphology impacting oxidizability, and additives preventing overoxidation. A slight phosphorus excess optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. Aliphatic alcohols control V5+ reduction, high P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, and additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly in methane to formaldehyde conversion, is influenced by the presence of monomeric or polymolybdate molybdenum species. Polymolybdate species lead to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity due to decreased dispersion and channel blocking. In contrast, monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, demonstrating their specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in selective oxidation reactions, notably in benzene to phenol conversion. Catalyst performance is significantly influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties, highlighting potential for advanced organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Studies reveal the transition metal activity sequence as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, boosts efficiency. Methane can be transformed into higher hydrocarbons over supported Pt catalysts via a two-step route. Surface oxygen species interaction likely initiates the CH bond splitting in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are also investigated, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 showing promise for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. Lower loadings favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra, enhancing the exothermic reaction with concentrated feeds. Optimal propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species, both of which are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 show low activity. The portion of AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, affect active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is crucial for converting abundant natural gas reserves, mostly methane, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. The activation mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond upon interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafted catalyst yields highly dispersed MoO42species, significantly enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to the catalyst's performance, affecting CO selectivity. Compared to classical impregnated W and Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, the new grafted catalyst greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be significantly reduced by incorporating O2 adsorption during water elimination and using a support for the catalyst. This enhancement in efficiency is crucial for alkane transformations, particularly in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes, with Zn-ZSM-5 enhancing BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization at high temperatures. Higher alkanes can transform without co-reactants, and methane conversion to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a key research area, illustrating the selective challenges and efficiency factors in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and promoting hydrogen removal in propane's regioselective H/D exchange. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI, demonstrating the catalyst's efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably isolated ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are critical for selective alkane oxidation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality in design and mechanism, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity balance. Multifunctionality alone is insufficient, emphasizing the need for a comprehensive approach in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing natural gas utilization challenges. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo and Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with rising methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism underpins methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Bridging lattice O atoms on vanadium oxides favor propene production over terminal O atoms, which is essential for balancing CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Ethane activation over zinc involves heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, leading to Brnsted acid protons (quote 4). In contrast, gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments (quote 6). Gallium activation results in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons (quote 7). These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, focuses on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, temperature, metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 demonstrates effectiveness in alkane conversion, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal in methane-to-aromatics processes, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's efficiency is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, affecting selectivity with space velocity. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, enhance aromatization activity, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production, generating dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal the effects of pretreatments, and for high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and H2 production. They facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, which increases aromatic turnover while reducing cracking turnover. Acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, Ga and Zn species boost efficiency and selectivity, increasing propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking product formation. These enhancements are crucial for industrial processes, improving the extraction of valuable H2 from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation, via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for key steps. These processes are industrially significant for enhancing aromatization selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, with studies showing over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveals formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, hinges on their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, alongside the modification of acid sites by metal addition, is critical. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact performance. Various reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, also exert substantial influence. Methane activation mechanisms remain a subject of debate, with heavy carbon deposits posing a significant challenge to process development. Understanding the role of Mo species during the reaction is essential for advancing methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. The conversion involves metalalkyl intermediates and complex mechanisms. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. VO4 tetrahedra are observed at low V loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting industrial significance through selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being a critical step in industrial and enzymatic processes. In oxidative dehydrogenation, the first hydrogen abstraction occurs solely on OVV sites, while the second can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are integral to the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, significantly affecting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane-to-methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. These findings underscore the critical role of catalyst composition and reaction conditions in controlling alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is crucial for controlling the reaction steps in the conversion of alkanes to maleic anhydride. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods significantly impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including phase interconversion, is critical for catalytic performance. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride, highlighting the importance of surface modifications in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn's promoting effect on H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes enhances reaction rates and lowers activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond cleavage, forming Zn-alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, crucial for enhanced aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with structure-activity relationships optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity, promoting the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation, with water addition boosting activity by increasing reactive oxygenated species concentration, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, underscoring industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with surface Lewis acid sites decreasing and surface BrCnsted acid sites increasing upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts enable the activation of light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable aromatics and isomers. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide forms GaO+ ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, which is further stabilized by steam. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, showcasing the efficiency of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. A P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, affecting reactivity. An optimal catalyst composition with a slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by molybdenum species and preparation methods. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high loading decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting 25-30% benzene to phenol. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant properties of dinitrogen monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, excel in methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with Mo showing superior activity. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve stability. Zeolite micropore modification and CH4 interaction with surface oxygen species are pivotal for CH bond splitting. Direct and indirect methane conversion routes exist; the latter involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling and catalysts like PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based zeolites facilitate aromatization, with preparation and treatment methods being critical. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts enable methane activation and transformation into higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and vanadium loadings, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra form at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, reaching 873 K, benefits from a high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 show low activity, highlighting the importance of species composition and coordination for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation enhance catalytic efficiency by increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst enhances methane partial oxidation (MPO) activity, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Interaction with zeolite surface OH groups yields highly dispersed MoO42species, boosting formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening by zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly increases formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly reduced by considering a triplet state and further lowered by O2 adsorption during water elimination. Support for vanadium oxide is essential, as it decreases propane adsorption barriers, enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX. Aromatization selectivity is partial, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, boosts regioselective H/D exchange in propane transformations by leveraging Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites for hydrogen removal. Two regioselectivity mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolite alters the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's selective oxidation capability (Quote [1]) and the isolation of its ions in a stable matrix (Quote [2]) are key. Product stability (Quote [3]) and the type of C-H bond activation (Quote [8]), alongside acidity and basicity (Quote [9]), significantly influence efficiency. These factors are critical for industrial processes, ensuring catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Propylene may oligomerize, and dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis. Partial pressure affects efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, dehydrogenation, and aromatization. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. The carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly influence process efficiency. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal catalyst performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, impacting the formation of valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are impacted by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. Industrial methane conversion processes demand catalysts with enhanced selectivity and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with dehydrogenation being rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Different aromatization mechanisms are suggested for ZSM-5-Zn, involving hydrogen generation, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly impact aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones; reoxidation at 550C yields dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation (Quote [2]). They act as 'portholes' for H-atom disposal, improving efficiency and selectivity (Quote [10]). By removing H-atoms from acid sites, Ga and Zn increase propene formation, prevent cracking, and boost aromatic turnover rates (Quote [9]). This selective H-atom removal is crucial for high H2 selectivity from light alkanes in industrial processes (Quote [5]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through alkyl and carbenium activation routes, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene initiates aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, starting the mechanism with ethane CH bond rupture. Activation energies highlight process efficiency, with the carbenium route less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, significantly affects catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Our study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen reveals that formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Key factors include catalyst modification, optimized reaction conditions, HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, and Mo species' valence and location. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo introduction changing acid sites and affecting the reaction mechanism. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development. The role of Mo species in the reaction pathway is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species as active sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing a variety of metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, boost selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. The nature of acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects catalytic performance, with Lewis sites predominant at low loadings and both Lewis and Brnsted sites present at high loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Lower iron content optimizes selectivity for methane to methanol. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe(III) in framework sites and reaction conditions determine reaction pathways and product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    