Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for catalyst design. However, high V contents can compromise structural stability. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites boosts ethylene selectivity during ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, yet enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with the P:V ratio and defect structure playing crucial roles. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The PVO system exhibits intercalation chemistry, affecting catalytic performance. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, with oxygen balances showing Vv phosphate as the oxygen source in both cases, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane activation through dissociative adsorption, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are reactive toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes into valuable products through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, particularly the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, with similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, with propene formation being more favorable. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 increases upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, the exposure of the (001) plane, and the extent of V5+ reduction are affected by the preparation method. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking; the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties. This process, while lacking detailed literature on composition and structure effects, offers promising new technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in the catalytic conversion of methane to higher hydrocarbons like benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports, as well as the role of oxygen, are critical. Studies reveal that Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity for methane aromatization. Enhancements in activity and stability are achieved by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and the direct transformation route for methanol and formaldehyde are also significant. Methane aromatization over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 showing promise at high temperatures, albeit with coke formation concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower vanadium loadings, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, along with reaction conditions, significantly influence selectivity and conversion of alkanes. Their industrial significance lies in catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation is industrially significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, caused by interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafting process yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra show the absence of MoO3 aggregates, indicating successful grafting. The CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, which are higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers might require a support for vanadium oxide, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing transformation without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Selectivity in converting light alkanes to aromatics is incomplete, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, influences alkane transformations by changing the mechanism of activation and transformation, favoring hydrogen removal. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, leading to regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and the isolation of its ions in a stable matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity levels impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high catalytic activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. The improved catalytic activity by metal cations contributes to the industrial significance of these catalysts, enabling selective and stable conversion of methane to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) surfaces reveals similar activation energies, with both radical and oxo-insertion pathways viable at terminal O sites, while only oxo-insertion is feasible at bridging O sites. Propene production is easier at bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an efficient catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins, addressing the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, polarizing it at room temperature and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without forming Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations like methane conversion to aromatics and CH3OH/HCHO production. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Catalyst development is essential for enhancing selectivity and longevity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are similar across supports and VOx structures. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions affect alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to higher BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the paraffin-generating hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes, 1-hexene, and cyclohexene at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Pretreatments influence ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, enhance alkane transformations by increasing chemical conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. This boosts reaction rates, selectivity, and H2 extraction from light alkanes, contributing to industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts revealed two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen reveals formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the channel structure's acidity are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while others may diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 is pivotal for methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a significant challenge for reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow optimal temperature window, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where H-abstraction by VV surface oxo species is crucial. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation and direct methane aromatization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation, by activating CH bonds, a critical step in both industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, highlighting vanadyl sites' involvement in the rate-determining step. Vanadia sites integrated into the bulk surface exhibit enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, underscoring the importance of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time significantly affect conversion and selectivity; higher temperatures increase conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration drops at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and the specific oxide support. Catalysts' selectivity is affected by the support material, with vanadia on silica being more selective than on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali presence influences MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency of these processes is influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed determine the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and the reduction rate, is crucial. Two reaction steps are identified in the transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation of this intermediate. The first step is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second is controlled by the amount of Vv available. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, significantly affects catalytic performance. The P:V ratio is a key parameter for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The PVO system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation selectivity is crucial, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal properties. The vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. The different reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface highlight the complexity of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn enhances H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and increasing reaction rates. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by zeolite Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The molecular structures of these reduced species can be studied using various spectroscopic methods. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to the bridging V-O-support bond, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple surface sites, while basic additives can decrease TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Detailed kinetic analysis and structural characterization of catalysts with varying vanadia surface densities were reported, contrasting ethane and propane reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reaction rates and selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the involvement of extraframework oxygen atoms, is key in alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction (Quote 1). The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, with a slight excess of phosphorus enhancing catalyst performance (Quote 10). Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures (Quote 15), and low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere impacts catalyst behavior. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a balanced P/V ratio ensures high activity and selectivity (Quote 22). These factors are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts influence alkane transformations through their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, forming tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, yielded a well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite activity, iron's role, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's features. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is strongly exothermic, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed on alumina support at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas the AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. The strength and density of these sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are critical for selectivity and conversion of alkanes. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species after calcination. This process, unlike aqueous impregnation, avoids MoO3 aggregates, leading to isolated MoO42species. The catalyst's high formaldehyde yield is attributed to these species. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The new catalyst's MoO42species, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis, improve formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers are larger than those experimentally observed for supported vanadia. More complex reactions, like the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, may further lower some barriers. The involvement of a support is necessary to reduce barriers for propane adsorption, highlighting a key factor in enhancing the efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with processes like dehydrogenation central to Oleflex and aromatization in Cyclar and MB-forming. ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal over methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism. The study highlights the significance of catalyst modification in achieving regioselectivity and altering reaction pathways in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality, while essential, is not solely adequate. These factors are crucial for the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K yields high selectivity to benzene. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, enhancing dehydrogenation and aromatization. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5, improve efficiency in alkane transformations through a carbenium ion mechanism, demonstrating industrial significance in converting methane to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the latter offering easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's high activity hinders propene release, indicating that an efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium, however, weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, and gallium dihydride species instead of Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions in dehydrogenation processes, affecting efficiency and selectivity. The industrial value of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As VOx density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-H's radical-chain reaction initiation is speculative. Aromatics or olefins adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species. Different behaviors are attributed to distinct aromatization mechanisms, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H using hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 enhances propane aromatization but isn't as active or selective for ethane dehydrogenation as reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ isn't the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H2 formation by catalyzing H-atom desorption from dehydrogenation steps, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. These enhancements contribute to higher yields of desired products like propene and reduced by-product formation, making metal-based catalysts industrially significant for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts revealed two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are crucial. Certain metals like Ru, Pt, and W improve reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a negative impact. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting reaction pathways. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on small clusters and fully covered oxide surfaces, particularly with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface species being the most reactive, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchanged zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ -Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. The nature of acid sites also varies with vanadium loading, affecting the selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental to these transformations, impacting both technological and enzymatic reactions. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica are modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs primarily on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, affect methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. These factors are crucial for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support affects V5+ reduction and reactivity, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2 in ethane ODH. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane ODH. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation. Basic dopants enhance propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by feed redox properties, surface modifications, and reaction conditions. The valence state of vanadium, controlled by feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation and reduction rates, dictates product selectivity. Surface dynamics and modifications, induced by hydrocarbons, reveal the importance of Vw reduction and Vv availability in the two-step reaction to maleic anhydride. Selectivity is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate, with optimal performance at specific V4+/V5+ ratios. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its interconversion of V(IV) and V(V) phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. Synthesis variables, like solvent use, influence crystallinity and defect structure, affecting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio, crucial for selectivity and activity, optimizes at 1.1. PVO exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic efficiency. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest distinct catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, a process involving controversy over metal and acid site roles. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefins further oligomerize and dehydrocyclize into aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores activate alkanes before interacting with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites activates alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatic formation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing cationic species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as evidenced by enhanced Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the nature of the oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structure is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The surface vanadia species' reactivity is linked to the dehydrated V(5+) form, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, can influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing their composition and reaction conditions, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Their industrial significance is underscored by the ability to transform alkanes into aromatics and isomers, with novel regeneration methods mitigating deactivation and extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reaction rates. High alkene yields require optimized values of rate constants k1, k2/k1, and k3/k1. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Spectroscopic results suggest distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, enhancing initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit different activities based on their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, with the latter predominant at high Mo loadings, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 2, 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, featured a well-dispersed monomeric phase (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol, highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in catalyst efficiency. Further advancements in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between transition metals and zeolite supports, detailing active species and mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial in many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts. Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity for methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component can enhance catalyst performance. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Surface vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures around 873 K with concentrated feeds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are significant in the petrochemical industry for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are key for selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process, involving reactive acid hydroxyl groups of the zeolite and basic acetylacetonate ligands, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, improving formaldehyde yield. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. The new catalyst, characterized by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, shows Mo(VI) species highly dispersed on the surface, unlike aggregates found in aqueous impregnation methods. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde being a key component in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Barriers may be reduced by considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the involvement of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for efficiency in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with processes like Oleflex and Cyclar employing ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatics production, especially BTX. Conversion isn't selective, forming light alkenes alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange in propane are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI suggest an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, and the type of C-H bond activation are critical. Acidic and basic properties also influence efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms but isn't solely sufficient. These factors are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, demonstrate high efficiency in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. The incorporation of Mo or Zn significantly enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, leading to improved dehydrogenation and aromatization. Reaction conditions, including temperature and the presence of a carbenium ion mechanism, contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms. The radical and oxo-insertion pathways are viable at the terminal O site, while only the oxo-insertion mechanism works at the bridging O site. Propene production is easier at the bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal as the terminal O is too active for propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms of ethane activation. Zinc-modified catalysts form acid-base pairs, leading to strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium activation yields gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in selectively converting alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to aromatics and other products. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. There's a need for catalysts that offer higher selectivity and longevity, as these factors significantly impact industrial processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition and structure affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local hydrogen concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Different aromatization mechanisms, involving hydrogen generation over ZSM-5-Zn versus hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H, explain the catalysts' behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with reduced gallium (Ga+) limited by anionic framework sites, are active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments influence ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ga and Zn species enhance chemical conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, facilitating hydrogen disposal and the formation of dihydrogen (H2). These metals increase the rate of H2 formation and propene production, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in Zn-exchanged zeolites follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with Zn acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting formaldehyde selectivity and methane conversion. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Channel structure, acidity, and Mo species' valence and location in HZSM-5 zeolite are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loadings (Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, Cr) boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation techniques, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature, pressure, and methane space velocity, significantly impact catalytic efficiency. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite activity. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation during dehydro-aromatization are major research focuses, impacting process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites can directly aromatize methane, with Mo or Zn-containing zeolites achieving high selectivity for benzene and H2. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts catalytic behavior in oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with higher vanadium loading, but selectivity to olefins peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower V loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions is higher with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental, impacting both technological and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, with hydrogen abstraction occurring primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity towards oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit different rates of methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, corresponding to monolayer structures. The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends on alkane/O2 ratios. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. The support's role in vanadium oxide reactivity has been extensively studied, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. The reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains can be affected by binary dispersed structures, and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. The selectivity order follows the increasing basicity and MO bond energy. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of acid and redox sites enhances ethylene selectivity during ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their reactivity increases with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity. Basic oxides inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is influenced by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. A two-step mechanism for alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio determine redox properties. At low conversion, catalysts show similar selectivity, but at high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and P:V ratios of 1.1 for best selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons interact uniquely with the catalyst surface, affecting reactivity and product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, leading to the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework gallium species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, promoting ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as evidenced by increased dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite upon water co-feeding. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing the predominant species and the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, containing only isolated species, may enhance catalyst stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while basic additives can retard reduction and decrease TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities yield the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 values lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, such as light alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affects alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the reaction energy for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and additives affecting performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species (Quote 2). High molybdenum loading (over 1.3 wt.%) increases polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, featured a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, mainly tetrahedral monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts show higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. This is exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties. Advancements in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Studies reveal the sequence of transition metal activity as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane as an alternative direct conversion method has been widely studied since 1982. Methane can be activated over multi-component catalysts to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits, and transformed into higher hydrocarbons over supported Pt catalysts. The splitting of the CH bond in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is strongly exothermic, reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies reveal that phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion of vanadium species correlate with catalytic performance. The highest propene selectivity is associated with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, crucial for catalytic activity. The strength and density of these sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, affect selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are significant industrially for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production of olefins, aromatics, and other petrochemical products. The presence of active species and acidity levels, influenced by reaction conditions, are essential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite for methane partial oxidation (MPO), significantly impact alkane transformations. This catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, exhibits enhanced MPO activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and XRD analyses confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation. CO selectivity is influenced by residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, which are higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for vanadium oxide, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes through catalytic dehydrogenation, a process central to converting light gases to BTX aromatics using catalysts like ZSM-5. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 catalysts release hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, influences alkane transformations by changing the mechanism of activation and transformation, favoring hydrogen removal. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, leading to regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Modification with Zn alters the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role as the preferred element for selective oxidation and the isolation of its ions in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a criterion for catalyst design and a tool for understanding reaction mechanisms, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity all enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality, though essential, is not solely adequate. These factors significantly impact the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes, cyclizes, and aromatizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts' industrial significance lies in converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and fuels, using Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising yet challenging approach. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is significantly enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. The efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, reaction conditions, and the presence of metal cations, contributing to their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins, addressing the global demand for these valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium leads to gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are vital for selective alkane conversion into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion, where they promote higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate efficiency influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increased density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak at intermediate VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalysts' dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as seen in propane dehydrocyclodimerization to C6 aromatics. These metals act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal and H2 formation, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. This contributes to industrial significance by boosting yields of desired products and reducing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1). The less favorable carbenium route has a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loading boosts reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, influencing reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbon deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development. Mo species' role during reaction is crucial for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature range around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support, stabilizing isolated centers for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites show similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial in these processes, impacting both technological and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without altering overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time increases methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. These findings highlight the role of catalyst composition and reaction conditions in controlling the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst surface, influencing product formation. Surface modifications and the V4+/V5+ ratio are crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride, with optimal performance at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio affects selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Two reaction steps are identified: oxidative dehydrogenation to butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion rates. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including phase interconversion, is pivotal for understanding reaction mechanisms. The PVO system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability influencing catalytic performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at Brnsted acid sites. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations. Zn-alkyl species formation on high Zn content zeolites occurs at small ZnO clusters. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups. Protonation of Znalkyl by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitates protium transfer from SiOHAl to deuterated alkane. Only methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes participate in the exchange. Zn species influence alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites. Znalkyl interaction with zeolite acid sites supports H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization. The intermediate state involving zeolite acid and alkane-and-Zn sites leads to dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy helps elucidate structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal coordination of metal centers. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by factors such as surface vanadia monolayer stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reduction in environments like H2 and CO forms surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, especially acidic and basic ones, modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with effects varying by reaction type. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical, enabling the activation and transformation of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups during conditioning enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation followed by ammonia washing, exhibit distinct activity in methane conversion to formaldehyde. At high molybdenum loadings, polymolybdate species predominate, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Polymolybdate species activate methane more effectively than acid sites but yield low formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the zeolite matrix's composition, and the oxidant's characteristics. This promising direction could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis, despite a lack of detailed literature on how catalyst composition and reaction conditions affect alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements in activity and stability are achieved by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond splits due to interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Different vanadium oxide species form on alumina surfaces based on vanadium loadings, with isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites forms active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. These species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increase the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for alkane conversion. The strength and density of these acid sites, along with metal ion coordination environments, significantly affect selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to catalyze reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields. The presence of active species and acidity are key for efficient alkane transformations, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improving formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's structure, involving MoO42species, is confirmed by UV and XPS analysis. XRD spectra indicate highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregated MoO3 in aqueous impregnation. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, with Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts showing high selectivity. The new catalyst's efficiency in MPO reactions highlights its potential for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat lowered by considering a triplet state. Barriers on the reaction pathway are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia, suggesting the need for more complex reaction pathways, such as a concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barriers may be reduced by involving a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar. This conversion isn't fully selective, with light alkenes forming alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 catalysts release dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. The conversion of methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons and the transformation of higher alkanes without co-reactants are also significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium-based catalysts and metal-exchanged zeolites are pivotal, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix is essential. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity influence efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient. These factors are critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. The incorporation of Mo or Zn significantly activates methane, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These catalysts' enhanced dehydrogenation and aromatization capabilities underpin their industrial significance for alkane transformations, particularly in the conversion of methane to valuable chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the efficiency of these processes. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on single-crystal V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O site is too active, hindering propene release, making it an inefficient catalyst. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to convert alkanes into more valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium, however, weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures and gallium dihydride species, without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion, with a need for higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate efficiency and selectivity influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-H's radical-chain reaction initiation is speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species. Different behavior between catalysts is due to distinct aromatization mechanisms, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H generating paraffins via hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. Pretreatment effects on ethane dehydrogenation were tested, revealing the necessity of Ga2O3 reduction for gallium dispersion, yet the most active catalyst for aromatics production lacks reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing conversion rates and selectivity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. They facilitate hydrogen desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2), and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and reducing cracking products. This results in higher yields of desired products like propene and C6 aromatics, with reduced by-product formation. The selective removal of H-atoms by recombinative desorption contributes to the high selectivity extraction of H2 from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ion interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction affect catalytic behavior. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a major challenge. Understanding Mo species' real status and role in the reaction pathway is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates best at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation, forming propene via adjacent VO species. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization. Alkanes convert to aromatics through dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, with the former achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the mechanisms and applications of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical; higher temperatures and longer contact times increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction pathways. The speed of methanol production and its subsequent oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide varies with the catalyst form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity and combustion rates. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx structure and electronic properties, affecting catalytic rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface are key to understanding selectivity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by vanadium oxidation states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio significantly impact redox properties and selectivity. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its various crystalline phases, affects catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio influences selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion suggests a single-site process. The reactivity of but-1-ene and n-butane differs, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role in product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated species, enhancing catalytic dehydrogenation of ethane. The coordination environment and extraframework oxygen basicity impact H2 desorption. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon environments, with V(5+) being predominant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity is related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of k2/k1 for propane slightly increases with vanadia surface density, while k3/k1 decreases with temperature for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation to form reactive GaO+ ions, is crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are critical for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other, by ammonia washing, creating a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the role of carbonaceous deposits and the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation method, support type, and environmental conditions. On alumina, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings, with maximum temperatures observed in concentrated feeds. Studies show that the nature and properties of vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings correlate with phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion, impacting catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios and enhancing catalytic activity. The strength and density of these acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are critical for alkane conversion and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with methane's CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting avoids water, yielding isolated MoO42species, which are crucial for high formaldehyde yield. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. While aromatization isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX, Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI suggest an alternative mechanism, highlighting the significance of catalyst modification in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and the isolation of its ions in a stable matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts convert light alkanes to aromatics, significant petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemicals or fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method, posing a significant catalysis challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane pressure rises. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. The addition of metal cations boosts ZSM-5's activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. Reaction conditions and a carbenium ion mechanism contribute to the industrial relevance of these catalysts by enabling selective and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure influence the efficiency of these processes. For instance, single-crystal V2O5(001) activates CH bonds via terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, but is not an ideal catalyst due to difficulties in propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures leading to ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion, where higher selectivity and longer catalyst life are sought. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane to aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface VOx sites. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to enhanced BTX formation on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with the paraffin generation on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly on ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 allows gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption to form H2, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, yielding higher desired product yields and valuable H2 with high selectivity from light alkanes, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite revealed two activation routes: one through CH bond activation and the other through carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as reported in the partial oxidation of methane over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the channel structure's acidity are critical for catalytic activity. Metal loading, particularly Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature, pressure, and regeneration, impact catalytic efficiency. Mo species introduction and second metal addition alter zeolite acid sites. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is pivotal for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, converting alkanes into aromatics via dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at high loading, with higher activity from octahedral V5+ and higher selectivity from tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides on silica, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is key. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, crucial for propene formation. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    