Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal VOx domain size balances surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity by influencing parallel propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalysts like VCoAPO-18, with both acid and redox sites, achieve high ethylene selectivities. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density and domain size, with basic oxides affecting MoOx structure and electronic properties, impacting propylene combustion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed modify the catalyst's surface, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface are pivotal for understanding selectivity. The two-step reaction mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw and Vv states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio in the PVO system significantly impact performance. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The intercalation chemistry and stability of PVO phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are crucial for n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio influences selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn facilitates recombinative desorption of H atoms as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for enhanced aromatization ability through synergetic action. Enhanced alkane conversion to aromatics is achieved by the synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Reactivity properties are linked to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support affects the turnover frequency (TOF). Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, activate alkanes into valuable products via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions under mild conditions. Efficiency is driven by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, specifically active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimized conditions boost yields and selectivities, while effective regeneration methods address deactivation, critical for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Higher alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadates at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly Ga+ species oxidized by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5, form reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy and aiding hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the complex but efficient mechanisms of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Morphology and reduction of V5+ are affected by preparation methods, impacting the exposure of the (001) plane. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, avoiding V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are crucial for the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, critical for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one with polymolybdate species that boost methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, and another with monomeric Mo species that, despite reduced methane conversion, significantly enhance formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production. Higher Mo loadings lead to polymolybdate species predominance, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels, affecting catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the selective oxidation of benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics under controlled conditions, avoiding deep oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhance activity and stability, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity sequence. Zeolite micropore modification improves performance. Direct and indirect conversion routes are explored, with surface oxygen species facilitating CH bond splitting. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites show promise in methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves high propene selectivity, with both species active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation increase acidity and catalytic activity, with the efficiency sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and olefin manufacture from methanol, offering mild operation conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. This innovative catalyst, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, as confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, with XRD spectra indicating no aggregates, ensuring high dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced by considering a triplet state and complex O2 adsorption reactions. Support involvement is crucial for lowering these barriers and enhancing the efficiency of the process. These insights into catalyst composition and structure are essential for understanding the mechanisms and improving the efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts, particularly Ga-ZSM-5 and GaZn-ZSM-5, are critical in converting light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes, with selectivity challenges due to light alkenes formation. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization, while gallium-containing samples are favored over zinc alone to mitigate volatilization at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating alkane activation through dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. This modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating a unique mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially isolated ions in inert matrices, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions hinges on product stability, multifunctional catalyst properties, C-H bond activation modes, and acidity/basicity levels. Multifunctionality, though pivotal for design and mechanism understanding, is not solely adequate. These factors are crucial for industrial applications of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, and yield propylene and dihydrogen via dehydrogenation over Zn sites, regenerating the catalyst. Reactant partial pressure influences product distribution: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, with metal incorporation enhancing catalytic activity. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, showcasing their efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition and structure, affecting CH bond activation and propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) shows that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but optimal catalysts must balance this with efficient propene release. These catalysts' industrial value lies in their ability to convert alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, crucial for dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons at high temperatures. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like FePO4 for methanol production and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, is pivotal for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, and other conditions. Performance of these catalysts, crucial for industrial significance, is notably affected by pretreatment and temperature.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity causes hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated by ion-exchange, reduce gallium to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 is more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation, generating optimal Ga3+ for aromatics production. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, enhancing deuterium incorporation and H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing propene and aromatic yields, crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and carbenium activation, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Computed activation energies highlight the energetics of these steps, indicating the reaction's efficiency. The alternative carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a higher activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. In W/HZSM-5 catalysts, tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency hinged on catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is crucial, altering acid sites and impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Metal loading, notably Ru, Pt, and W, enhances reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P diminish these effects. Preparation methods and calcination temperature significantly influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly affect catalytic activity. Ongoing debates around methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation hinder process development. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is essential for advancing methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange and forming Gaalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for optimal selectivity in n-butane and ethane transformations. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings yield tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings produce octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica playing a key role. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and second hydrogen abstraction can occur at VOSi bridging oxygen sites without altering overall kinetics. Bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit higher activity than silica-supported monomers, emphasizing the impact of catalyst structure on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature enhances methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations. Reactant redox properties modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is influenced by reactant redox potential and oxidation/reduction rates at reaction temperatures. The P:V ratio and surface modifications by hydrocarbons significantly impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and subsequent oxidation are key steps, governed by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Excessive Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity for maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and a P:V ratio of 1.1 are essential for selectivity and activity in n-butane oxidation. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Distinct hydrocarbons exhibit varied reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, influencing product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, leading to aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species. This interaction enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites, leading to enhanced alkane conversion to aromatics. The mechanism involves the synergistic action of Zn and Brnsted sites, enhancing aromatization through the activation of alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic efficiency. In zeolites, confined spaces promote the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species boost ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition increases dehydrogenation activity by elevating reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The monolayer's stability ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease and surface Br0nsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) peak at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2). The highest alkene yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions (<800 K). High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal cations in MFI zeolites, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen atom pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, markedly increasing efficiency over HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods that affect morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios that stabilize (VO)P207, additives like Zn2+ that prevent overoxidation, and activation conditions including low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations during conditioning. A slight excess of phosphorus in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation followed by ammonia washing, play a critical role in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading favoring polymolybdate species that reduce dispersion and partially block zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature a dispersed monomeric phase, showing lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics to produce phenol from benzene with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties. These processes could lead to new organic synthesis technologies, underlining their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, with Mo/HZSM-5 leading in activity, enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification is a researched area for improving catalysts. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. The activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing catalytic performance. VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals into HZSM-5 zeolites boosts the Lewis to Brnsted acid sites ratio, enhancing catalytic efficiency. These catalysts are essential in petrochemical processes, affecting selectivity and conversion under mild conditions, which optimizes energy consumption and product yields for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The mechanism initiates with methane's CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Highly dispersed MoO42species, confirmed by XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra, are key to the catalyst's enhanced formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show that vanadium oxide in a triplet state reduces barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the role of complex reactions and catalyst support. Concerted O2 adsorption and water elimination lower barriers, emphasizing the importance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes through dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, indicating a mechanism shift that differentiates kinetic parameters from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, highlighting its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation, with isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix boosting efficiency. Critical factors include product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity, aiding catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding. Multifunctionality, while key, isn't solely sufficient for industrial success in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with propylene capable of oligomerization and dihydrogen participating in hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining the aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane-to-benzene conversion at high temperatures under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo and Zn into ZSM-5 boosts catalytic activity and methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. CH bond activation in propane dehydrogenation occurs via radical or oxo-insertion pathways, favoring propene production at bridging O sites due to weaker propoxide binding. Efficient catalysts must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as overactive single-crystal V2O5(001) can hinder propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, critical for dehydrogenation efficiency. Zn enhances ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures for heterolytic dissociation, yielding Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, Ga weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation producing ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, essential for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, notably FePO4 for methanol and formaldehyde production and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, is critical for alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and 60-70% BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, suggesting secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, notably for propane. Reduced catalysts perform comparably to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed, higher-energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects. Trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium added in small amounts boost aromatics yield. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation into products. They act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This increases propene production and decreases cracking turnover rates, improving selectivity and efficiency. These enhancements highlight the industrial value of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, with activation energies highlighting process efficiency. Carbenium activation has a high initial barrier, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformations through optimized reaction conditions and catalyst modifications. Metal ions interacting with zeolite supports affect aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature also impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Introducing Mo species and a second metal modifies zeolite acid sites, affecting reaction mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, posing a significant challenge. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities in oxidative dehydrogenation, best at around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is critical, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica playing a key role. Hydrogen abstraction in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation occurs primarily on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher after readsorption on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9, 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures (Quote 11), but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12). When Fe-NaZSM-5 is used, methanol production is faster than carbon dioxide generation, but methanol oxidizes more rapidly to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide compared to Fe-HZSM-5 (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with higher V2O5 loading, achieving optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene, and substituting N2O for O2 leads to a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but their performance is lower than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting propylene combustion, thus increasing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis follows a two-step mechanism: oxidative dehydrogenation to butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system forms various V(IV) and V(V) phases, with preparation conditions affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is key, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing activity. Oxygen balances in but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation reveal the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source, highlighting differences in hydrocarbon reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites enhances aromatization ability, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships optimize catalytic performance, with confined zeolite spaces fostering multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enable heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination aid H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. In situ Raman studies reveal insights into the behavior of surface vanadia species during reactions, including the role of the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the acidic characteristics of the overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. The reactivity is associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the bridging V-O-support bond, which is critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule, and interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the TOF and selectivity of reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance propene formation over ethene with similar activation energies. Selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation is optimized at low vanadia surface densities, favoring isolated monovanadate species. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities, requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios for high alkene yields. Optimal conditions include high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly influence reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. Increasing surface densities lead to the formation of poly-vanadates and three-dimensional structures, with alkene selectivity increasing with reaction temperature and decreasing with vanadia surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, driving aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with isolated or extraframework oxygen atoms playing a role. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while high P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen can alter performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde is influenced by molybdenum species. At higher loadings, polymolybdate species block zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production. (For molybdenum loading higher than 1.3 wt.%, polymolybdate species are predominant causing a decrease in the dispersion and a partial blocking up of the HZSM-5 zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species of impregnated Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are more reactive in methane activation than acid sites of HZSM-5 but lead to low HCOH selectivity values. In contrast, treated catalysts show lower methane conversion but higher HCOH selectivity. These results demonstrate the specificity of the Mo=O sites of monomeric species for HCOH production.)", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly effective in selective oxidation, exemplified by converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity. This underscores the significance of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties in enhancing catalyst efficiency, indicating potential advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts catalyst efficiency. Indirect methane conversion via synthesis gas production and Fischer-Tropsch chemistry contrasts with direct routes yielding ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been extensively studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and vanadium loadings, are critical in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, enhancing propene selectivity, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. This exothermic reaction reaches temperatures of 873 K. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5, which have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals incorporated into HZSM-5 zeolites enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with acidity ratios and Lewis site strengths varying among HZSM-5, Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, in descending order of Lewis site strength. Reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant, enabling reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits superior activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The Mo(VI) surface species weaken the CH bond, facilitating methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity. The new catalyst's design optimizes properties for efficient alkane transformations, significantly boosting formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be reduced by considering complex reactions and the support's role in lowering adsorption barriers, enhancing efficiency. Support for vanadium oxide catalysts is critical for lowering barriers and improving catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are crucial in converting light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes, though selectivity is not complete. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their stability at high temperatures, essential for aromatization reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, excel due to vanadium's selective oxidation role and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix. Multifunctionality, crucial for catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, aids product stability and C-H bond activation. Acidity and basicity significantly affect efficiency, underlining their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's recombination shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Mo and Zn incorporation boosts methane activation, enhancing benzene yield with increased methane partial pressure. Metal cations significantly improve catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's overactivity hinders propene release, emphasizing the need for a balance in CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, enhancing ethane polarizability at moderate temperatures, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, vital for dehydrogenation, whereas gallium produces gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, impacting efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are critical for selective alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 is effective for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite facilitates methane-to-aromatics conversion, highlighting specific roles in enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion proceeds via dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with cracking as a concurrent reaction. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are similar for both catalysts, indicating comparable reaction kinetics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence the efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations. Reduced gallium, limited by anionic framework sites, enhances propane aromatization similarly to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts generate optimal, dispersed Ga3+, which is more active and selective for aromatics production than the reduced form. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, impacting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, pivotal for dihydrogen formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to improve efficiency and selectivity by facilitating H-atom desorption. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels boosts aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, optimizing industrial processes. Ga and Zn species increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, allowing turnover without cracking products, and catalyze recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in C-H bond activation, essential for aromatization turnover.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane dehydrogenation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier, making it less favorable. These insights enhance the selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels, particularly via direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde, is a promising alternative to conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as evidenced by high formaldehyde selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity are dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are central to alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst structure, acidity, and Mo species' properties. Metal loading, notably Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, boosts reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a contrasting effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature are critical. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo's interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo and second metal addition alter reaction pathways. Methane activation modes are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species achieving superior selectivity for oxydehydrogenation. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, significantly impact selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is critical. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also participating without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadia sites in bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varied Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but lowers methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are critical in alkane transformations. Efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by N2O, which promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst performance is support-dependent, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, though less active than vanadia-based ones, display heightened reactivity with higher Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, influencing oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, affecting catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its various crystalline phases, is influenced by preparation variables, P:V ratio, and oxidation states. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. Surface oxygen concentrations influence the mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn and Brnsted acid sites synergistically activate alkane CH bonds, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps. Zn promotes reaction rates for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl intermediates that aid H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Zn directly influences alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites, crucial for aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships optimize catalytic performance, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes in zeolites enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, plays a critical role. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in environments with hydrogen and carbon monoxide, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments, with in situ Raman spectroscopy revealing insights into their behavior. The stability of V(5) surface vanadia species on silica supports, attributed to the presence of isolated species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The specific oxide support influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species minimally. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds do, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, especially basic ones, can retard surface vanadia reduction and decrease TOFs, while acidic additives can have diverse effects on selectivity. The unique properties of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is driven by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes to be converted into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, addressing deactivation through novel regeneration methods, which is crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkane transformations, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures (Quote 2). High alkene yields are achieved with isolated monovanadate species at temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions (<800 K) (Quote 5, 39). Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities (8 V/nm2) (Quote 13), underscoring the significance of surface density in catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Cationic clusters, especially with extraframework oxygen atoms, enhance alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers, involving heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, significantly increases efficiency compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction are critical, varying with preparation techniques. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, preventing oxidation in reactants and air. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface phosphorus enrichment preventing overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, stabilizing V4+. Catalysts with a slight phosphorus excess balance reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, critical for alkane transformations, were prepared by conventional impregnation and ammonia washing, yielding monomeric Mo(VI) and polymolybdate species. High molybdenum loadings (>1.3 wt.%) hindered dispersion and partially blocked zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed greater methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in oxidative hydroxylation, achieving 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties, highlighting potential in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, Pt, and PtCrO3, are crucial in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports enhance methane conversion to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics. Catalyst modification, especially in zeolite micropores, boosts activity and stability. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu improve catalyst performance. Mo exhibits the highest activity for methane aromatization, followed by W, Fe, V, and Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. Direct conversion routes for methanol and formaldehyde are also explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic process, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites enhances acidity and catalytic activity, with the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio and Lewis site strength increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, and Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, respectively. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and enhanced product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite creates a new catalyst that boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, vital for converting natural gas reserves into methanol and formaldehyde. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, significantly enhances formaldehyde yield compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The mechanism involves methane interaction with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond, and the presence of isolated MoO42species, which are key to the catalyst's high activity. Methanol and formaldehyde are crucial for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods, highlighting the industrial significance of this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts face high energy barriers, which are reduced by a support, crucial for enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations. Supported vanadia exhibits lower barriers than isolated vanadium oxide due to factors like O2 adsorption, underscoring the support's role in improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes convert to aromatics like BTX via ZSM-5 catalysts in processes such as Oleflex, with hydrogen release enhancing BTX selectivity. Gallium-containing ZSM-5 is favored over zinc due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolites, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating alkane activation through two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation/deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in selective alkane oxidation (Quote 1). Efficiency hinges on the stability of vanadium ions in an inert matrix (Quote 2) and multifunctionality, which aids in catalyst design (Quote 5A) and elucidates reaction mechanisms (Quote 5B), though multifunctionality alone is insufficient (Quote 5C). C-H bond activation type (Quote 8) and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) also critically impact process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, with dihydrogen's role varying by pressure. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, enhancing aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. This is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield, especially with increased methane pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) emphasize the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal catalyst performance, as terminal O sites are overly active for propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc-modified catalysts facilitate heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures, while gallium-modified catalysts lead to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton generation. This difference in activation mechanisms directly influences hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, notably FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5, is pivotal for improving selectivity and longevity in oxidative dehydrogenation. FePO4 enhances CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 boosts methane conversion to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports like Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2 evolves with vanadium surface density, forming dispersed species below 7 VOx/nm2 on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, and large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures transition from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). Propane conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H, which controls dehydrogenation rate. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated by ion-exchange, reduce gallium to Ga+, enhancing aromatization activity (Quote 2). Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures (Quote 3). For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones (Quote 4). Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen (Quote 6). Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates (Quote 11), affecting aromatics/methane selectivity, a key indicator of relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for efficient H2 extraction. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing propene formation, thus improving selectivity and yields in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These insights enhance understanding of selectivity for aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Direct oxidation of methane to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising yet challenging process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior, with studies showing 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical. Metal addition can enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo introduction changing acid sites. Methane activation modes are debated, and heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene, with silica being the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where terminal oxo species of VV are the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for optimal selectivity in n-butane and ethane transformations. Selectivity to ethene surpasses that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, critical for alkane transformations, vary with vanadium loading, affecting both selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. Hydrogen abstraction primarily occurs on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, as revealed by modeling with vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Propene formation is notably faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene formation. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface, underscoring the impact of catalyst structure on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature is critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration drops at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which modify the surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The change in vanadium's valence state is governed by the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio significantly impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by the amount of Vv. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with the P:V ratio determining selectivity and activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is necessary for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentration, suggesting a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface differ, with Vv phosphate acting as the oxygen source in both cases, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating alkane CH bond breakage. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores adsorb alkanes, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form on high Zn content zeolites, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics through the synergistic action of Zn and Brnsted sites. The mechanism involves methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structures have been extensively studied. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives affect all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is driven by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes to be converted into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, while innovative regeneration methods counteract deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts boost ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates notably higher than ethene. Catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, maximize alkene production. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, and higher reaction temperatures improve alkene selectivity. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity, with the stabilization energy for ethoxide species affecting propene formation rates. These insights highlight the critical role of vanadia structure, surface density, and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with gallium species in ZSM-5 forming reactive gallyl ions upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, enhanced by steam. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the mechanisms and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, additives, and low-temperature treatment. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction kinetics. A P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing catalyst performance. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with additives like Zn2+ preventing overoxidation at high temperatures. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo species. At high Mo loading, polymolybdate species dominate, decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels, which enhances methane conversion but reduces formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, well-dispersed monomeric species, achieved through specific preparation methods, lower methane conversion yet increase formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts for oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, highlighting its potential in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy in methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports influence active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use leads to deep methane oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts under non-oxidative conditions. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. This exothermic reaction optimally occurs at temperatures around 873 K. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals into HZSM-5 by sublimation boosts catalytic activity by increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions, like temperature and atmosphere, influence active species and performance. Strong Lewis acid sites and regenerated Brnsted acid sites enhance selectivity and conversion, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) surpasses conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts in efficiency. This advancement is pivotal for converting abundant natural gas into methanol or formaldehyde, leveraging the weak CH bond of methane through zeolite surface interaction. The catalyst's high dispersion of molybdenum(VI) species, achieved by grafting without water, significantly enhances formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while the specific activity of isolated MoO42species boosts methane conversion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption. The support for vanadium oxide catalysts is crucial, impacting efficiency in alkane transformations. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing metal-based catalysts in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are critical in converting light alkanes to methanol, higher hydrocarbons, and aromatics, including BTX, through oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane and butane transformation to alkenes and aromatics involves selectivity challenges, with light alkenes as byproducts. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures, ensuring efficient alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating a distinct mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored for selective alkane oxidation, excels in a quasi-inert matrix, vital for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency relies on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet is not solely sufficient, underlining industrial significance in enhancing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant pressure; low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis, shifting equilibrium toward propylene formation. This mechanism explains the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 boosts methane activation and increases benzene yield, which rises with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane follow a carbenium ion mechanism, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Propane's CH bond activation by V2O5(001) surfaces supports both radical and oxo-insertion pathways, with the latter being more favorable for propene production. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zn-modified catalysts polarize ethane at room temperature, facilitating heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Ga-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for hydrocarbon conversions involving dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, focuses on enhancing efficiency and selectivity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are pivotal for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Key factors influencing efficiency include pretreatment, reaction conditions, active metal state, and feed composition, critical for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn, potentially due to secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products. The different behavior of BTX selectivity with changing space velocity over the two catalysts is explained by the quasi-equilibrium of the BTX-forming dehydrogenation process over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production, generating a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with the dispersion and oxidation state affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, enhance alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for propene and C6 aromatic production. These metals act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom desorption and forming dihydrogen (H2), which boosts selectivity and efficiency. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, making them industrially significant for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zn-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored for its lower activation energies, and less favorable carbenium activation with a high barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity in aromatization processes, crucial for industrial applications, by efficiently dehydrogenating alkanes to alkenes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as evidenced by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, highlighting the industrial significance of these factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly influence alkane transformations. Metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are critical. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly impact catalytic performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity for n-butane and ethane, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at lower loadings favor oxydehydrogenation selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species at higher loadings enhance activity. Acid site nature and number, critical for alkane transformation, vary with vanadium loading. At lower loadings, isolated or associated tetrahedral/octahedral V5+ species are observed, transitioning to V2O5 crystallites at about 60% of theoretical monolayer coverage.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is pivotal. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves initial hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites, followed by VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with propene formation notably faster on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface, as opposed to being supported monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are key: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, and prolonged contact time further reduces selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) in framework sites, is pivotal for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Silica-supported vanadia is more selective than alumina or titania-supported catalysts, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The VOx-SBA-15 system, with a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, is one of the best performing catalysts in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface state, affecting product formation. A two-step mechanism is proposed for converting alkanes to maleic anhydride, involving oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction and further oxidation by Vv availability. The P:V ratio significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus content increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride while decreasing specific activity. Understanding surface modifications and their relationship with catalytic behavior is essential for optimizing selectivity-controlling properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by zeolite Brnsted acid sites, promoting aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces impact reactivity, with spectroscopy guiding structure-activity relationships. Extraframework gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit reactivity and stability influenced by coordination environment. Binuclear gallium-oxo species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are pivotal for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, such as active sites and acidity. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, addressing deactivation and improving operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Optimal conditions for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation include low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures, leading to high alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with isolated cations or extraframework oxygen atoms playing a role. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation methods and molybdenum loading influence methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional impregnation yields monomeric and polymolybdate species, while impregnation followed by ammonia washing produces a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in selective oxidation reactions, particularly in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. This underscores the significance of iron, the zeolite matrix's chemical composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties in enhancing catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for methane conversion. Synergies between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are crucial, as revealed through studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species on alumina form isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower and VO6 octahedra at higher vanadium loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, operates at 873 K. High propene selectivity correlates with dispersed, tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower activity, with AlVO4 increasing at higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The acidity and catalytic activity, critical for alkane transformation, ascend in the order HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like methanol-to-olefin conversion and light alkane aromatization, offering economic advantages through mild operating conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, key industrial compounds, is significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This is confirmed by UV spectra and XPS analysis, indicating high dispersion. The grafting method avoids water, yielding highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aqueous impregnation which forms MoO3 aggregates. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, highlighting the critical role of catalyst structure in industrial catalysis. Supported vanadia exhibits notably lower barriers, underlining the significance of catalyst structure. Adsorption barrier reduction for propane necessitates vanadium oxide support, emphasizing the importance of catalyst conditions in enhancing efficiency for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane dehydrogenate to alkenes in Oleflex-like processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, with ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes yields light alkenes alongside BTX, lacking complete selectivity. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations by altering activation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating regioselective H/D exchange in propane through distinct mechanisms, boosting regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI reveal an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating the significance of Zn modification in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, notably in vanadium oxides and zeolites, is pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Its selective oxidation role and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are crucial. Efficiency is enhanced by product stability, multifunctionality, and C-H bond activation methods. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though not sufficient alone. Acidity and basicity significantly affect the process, vital for industrial success.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, with propyl groups dehydrogenating over Zn sites to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Reactant pressures influence efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, highlighting their potential in natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts catalytic activity and methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. This underscores the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, supported by a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on V2O5 reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, but the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release to convert alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, creating ethyl and hydride fragments that coordinate with cationic gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species. These activation differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, crucial for industrial alkane conversion applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, all essential for industrial significance. Understanding these factors optimizes mechanisms and efficiency in alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's efficiency is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes as V2O5 on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, forming earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn by depleting hydrogen. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbons over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts, featuring a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, outperform reduced ones in ethane dehydrogenation, optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, with catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influencing alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. Pretreatments significantly impact ethane dehydrogenation performance, with the most active catalyst for aromatics production not featuring reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ga and Zn species act as 'portholes', enhancing propane conversion by facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, crucial for H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover, and reduce cracking turnover on H-ZSM5. By removing H-atoms from acid sites, Ga and Zn species prevent cracking, enhancing propene formation and selectivity, which is key to efficient H2 extraction from light alkanes, a significant industrial benefit.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies for critical steps highlight the efficiency of these processes. Carbenium activation is less preferred due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are crucial for enhancing selectivity in small alkanes' aromatization, vital for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is a studied alternative. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as shown by MoO3/SiO2 achieving over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as reported in studies. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde exhibit selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, play a critical role in alkane transformations, modifying acid sites and impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance catalyst reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have an opposing effect. Preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate, with heavy carbonaceous deposits posing a challenge for reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, requiring silica support for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, with high selectivity for benzene and H2 under certain conditions. The transformations occur via CH bond activation and formation of metalalkyl intermediates, with Ga-zeolites acting as multifunctional catalysts and Zn-zeolites displaying similar reactivity patterns.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species offer higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is fundamental. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation employs monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature is critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures but decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) incorporated into framework sites, affects reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    