Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, exhibit enhanced activity with higher V2O5 loading and optimal VOx domain size for reactant accessibility. Selectivity peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. V2O5-ZrO2 supports show the highest reactivity. Additives like P, K, Ca modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. VOx-SBA-15, with isolated active sites, is highly efficient. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, peak at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product selectivity. Surface modifications and dynamics are essential for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. The conversion from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, with Vw reduction controlling the first step and Vv availability governing the second. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. In the vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, the P:V ratio is a key parameter for catalyst selectivity and activity, with selectivity increasing with higher phosphorus loading. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is crucial, with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support the single-site mechanism for selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating CH bond breakage. Zn-alkyl species enhance dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces facilitate the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species from isolated GaO+, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated by enhanced Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by surface vanadia coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structure, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with the bridging V-O-support bond associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes under mild conditions in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is obtained at intermediate surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at maximum temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing light alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam addition, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Additives enhance performance, and conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving stability. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for industrial processes. Preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, additives, and conditioning are key factors in optimizing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, critical for alkane transformations, exhibit efficiency variation influenced by preparation methods and composition. Two series were studied: conventionally impregnated catalysts with tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, and ammonia-treated catalysts with a dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species, dominant at higher molybdenum loads, reduce dispersion and obstruct zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but compromising formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts show lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly effective catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, such as the oxidation of benzene to phenol. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, indicating potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports, along with active species and mechanisms, are crucial. Strategies aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Activity enhancement is observed with the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production and Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. The activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature aromatization, but coke formation poses a challenge. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation, enhance catalytic activity. Efficiency is influenced by the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis revealing highly dispersed MoO42species in oxidation state VI on the surface. This innovation, involving a reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and the complex's acetylacetonate ligands, yields isolated oxo species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers a promising approach for alkane transformations, addressing the weakness of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface, and outshines aqueous impregnation methods by avoiding MoO3 aggregates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced by considering a triplet state. This suggests complex reactions like O2 adsorption may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction is support-dependent, highlighting the significance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, utilizing ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations by altering activation mechanisms, specifically in hydrogen removal from propane. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating regioselective H/D exchange through two proposed mechanisms: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, or reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification improves regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, highlighting its efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in selective alkane oxidation (1), requiring vanadium isolation in a quasi-inert matrix (2). Multifunctionality is key for catalyst design (5) and elucidating reaction mechanisms (6), influenced by C-H bond activation, acidity/basicity, and product stability, all critical for efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, leading to propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and dehydrogenation, increasing benzene yield at higher methane partial pressures. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, V2O5(001) activates propane's CH bond, but its high activity at the terminal O site can hinder propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between activation and product release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive unique ethane activation pathways, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed alkane transformations. Zn promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while Ga facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences enhance dehydrogenation selectivity and efficiency, vital for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition, which are critical for higher product selectivity and longer catalyst life, highlighting their industrial significance in processes like methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, enhancing BTX formation at higher space velocities due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, affecting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Reduced gallium enhances propane aromatization but is less selective for ethane conversion to aromatics compared to reoxidized materials. Optimal catalysts generate dispersed Ga3+ at high temperatures, ideal for ethane dehydrogenation. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates effectively aromatizing dienes. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not solely consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption to form dihydrogen. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without cracking, increasing H2 formation via recombinative desorption. This accelerates propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking, improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, with ethane dehydrogenation to ethene proceeding via alkyl activation of a CH bond or less favorable carbenium activation, hindered by a high activation barrier. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, with computed activation energies indicating step feasibility. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, highlighting dispersion's importance. Formaldehyde selectivity on W/HZSM-5 catalysts is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, affected by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal, affecting the formation of aromatics and carbonaceous deposits. Metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity, while V and Li decrease it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature significantly impact catalytic performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence activity. Understanding the real status and role of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for advancements in methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity under optimal conditions. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkylation and coaromatization of methane, converting alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. M-zeolites, especially those containing Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, showcasing their industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings feature tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation, while higher loadings see octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, crucial for selectivity and activity, vary with vanadium content, including Lewis and Brnsted types.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being crucial. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, where hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, highlighting the importance of vanadia sites in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, in sodium or hydrogen form, influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with low iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation. Fe-NaZSM-5 favors faster methanol production but quicker oxidation compared to Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium and molybdenum oxide catalysts are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal reactant accessibility (Quote 2). Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development (Quote 3). Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, enhanced by N2O substitution for O2 (Quote 7). Catalysts supported on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania (Quote 11). In propane ODH, selectivity increases with the basicity and MO bond energy of dopants (Quote 16). Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density (Quote 23). Alkali dopants inhibit initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and increasing propylene selectivity (Quote 28).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through redox properties that modify the catalyst surface, impacting product formation. Surface dynamics control selectivity, with vanadium's valence state influenced by feed redox potential, oxidation, and reduction rates. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation are critical in alkane to maleic anhydride conversion, governed by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's complex chemistry, including phase interconversion, affects catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and P:V ratios enhance selectivity and activity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is a key active phase. Oxygen concentration determines single-site mechanisms for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, forming intermediates that facilitate dehydrogenation and aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, affecting their oxidation states. The presence of isolated surface vanadia species on silica supports enhances stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently convert alkanes to aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields. Novel regeneration methods extend catalyst life, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene, yet with similar activation energies. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence reaction rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Detailed kinetic analysis on vanadia/alumina with a wide surface density range shows ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios, with the local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affecting oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites boosts alkane transformation efficiency, notably in dehydrogenation processes. Ga/ZSM-5's enhanced activity stems from the formation of reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions upon oxidation. Water facilitates the creation of hydrolyzed gallium species, crucial for lowering the energy barrier for hydrogen recombination. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, leading to olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, were prepared via conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric Mo(VI) and polymolybdate species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favored polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. A second series, treated with ammonia, produced well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in benzene oxidation to phenol, highlighting their efficiency in alkane transformations. Key factors influencing this efficiency include zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. These processes are crucial for organic synthesis technologies, emphasizing the importance of understanding catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to benzene and naphthalene is facilitated by transition metal supported zeolites, with Mo/HZSM-5 standing out as an effective catalyst. Activity is boosted by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. Methane can be converted indirectly through synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, or directly to ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a research focus since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons, and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 aids methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is a potent catalyst for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to the interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species. Direct transformation of methane to methanol and formaldehyde has been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through enhanced acidity and catalytic activity, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals in HZSM-5, such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, create active species, and the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites is crucial for these processes. These catalysts are industrially significant for operations like MTG and olefin production from methanol, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst enhances formaldehyde yield in methane partial oxidation (MPO) reactions, surpassing traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The catalyst's synthesis involves grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, followed by calcination, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species. XPS analysis confirms the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, crucial for the catalyst's efficiency. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature, with CO selectivity linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst's performance is attributed to isolated oxo species of molybdenum in oxidation state VI, resulting from the interaction between zeolite surface OH groups and acetylacetonate ligands.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are surpassed experimentally. The support's role and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts, including Zn-ZSM-5 and Ga-ZSM-5, convert light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes in processes like Oleflex and Cyclar, targeting BTX production. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 is preferred for stability at reaction temperatures, avoiding zinc volatilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation or deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species, leading to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, favored for selective alkane oxidation, leverage isolated vanadium ions for stability. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's not the sole determinant. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is also shaped by the type of C-H bond activation, acidity, and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalyst. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, addressing a significant catalysis challenge. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. Studies confirm improved catalytic activity due to metal cation addition, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, contributing to industrial significance by enabling efficient conversion to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) activate CH bonds, with bridging O sites favoring propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is overactive, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the global demand for olefins by converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over zinc involves heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, impacting efficiency and selectivity in industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, notably FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, is pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting efficiency and selectivity. Key factors include pretreatment, reaction conditions, additives, metal state, and feed composition, essential for optimizing performance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadate domains and V2O5 crystallites as VOx surface density increases, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease, favoring primary combustion pathways. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and space velocity. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H generating paraffins. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, enabling gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ at high temperatures for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation, crucial for C6 aromatic formation. They enhance propane conversion, facilitate hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, and efficiently dispose of hydrogen as dihydrogen (H2). These metals permit dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving propene formation and H2 extraction with high selectivity, significantly enhancing industrial efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, particularly ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. Zinc acts as an acceptor in alkyl rupture, with activation barriers determining efficiency. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to higher energy requirements, highlighting the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, correlating with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts when converting methane to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst composition, structure, and optimized reaction conditions. The interaction of Mo and transition metal ions with zeolite supports, and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits, are pivotal. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are essential for catalytic performance. Catalyst preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with the introduction of Mo and a second metal changing the zeolite's acid sites. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activating H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with vanadium loading, yet selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, prevalent at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. The nature of acid sites, affected by vanadium loading, also impacts efficiency. These insights are pivotal for understanding the mechanisms and applications of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a key alkane transformation. Monomeric vanadium oxide species, particularly OVV and VOSi sites, facilitate hydrogen abstraction, with propene formation rates higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit greater activity than silica-supported monomers, enhancing the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increased temperature and contact time raise methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Performance hinges on metal cation clustering, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity escalates with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing olefin selectivity. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 creates a more reduced, selective surface. Alkane/O2 ratios dictate the extent of vanadium reduction and catalytically active centers. Silica-supported catalysts show higher propylene selectivity than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity, correlating with basicity and MO bond energy. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, exhibit increased surface Mo species reactivity with higher Mo surface density. MoOx domain size affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and boosting propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface, impacting product formation. Surface alterations by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, precedes further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure significantly affect the reaction mechanism. Optimal selectivity in n-butane oxidation requires a V4+/V5+ ratio of 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Higher phosphorus loading in the P:V ratio enhances selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects, highlighting the complex dynamics of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites, leading to alkane dehydrogenation and the formation of aromatic molecules. This demonstrates Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, vital for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces' reactivity is studied to develop catalysis relationships. Binuclear gallium-oxo species in high-silica zeolites exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of these species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reduction state and molecular structure of surface vanadia species are crucial for understanding their reactivity during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction, and the stability of the V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the isolated nature of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence the local structure. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V2O5 powders have both surface Brønsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Brønsted acid sites. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the specific oxide support affects the TOF, with a general trend inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic or basic oxides, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives can affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkane activation. Optimized composition and reaction conditions enhance yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration techniques mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are achieved on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, preventing V4+ oxidation. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Catalysts transform over time, with initial stages being more active but less selective. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo loading and species. High Mo loading (over 1.3 wt.%) leads to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. These polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, mainly tetrahedral monomeric species, offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites efficiently catalyze oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity, highlighting their role in alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's function, matrix composition, and oxidant properties, advancing organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Surface oxygen species likely split the CH bond in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Zeolite micropore modifications improve catalyst performance. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalyst activity, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic properties. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings produce VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation by optimizing composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance acidity, critical for catalytic activity, with Lewis sites strength in the order Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane activation involves CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. The catalyst features isolated MoO42species, resulting from the reaction between zeolite's reactive acid hydroxyl groups and the basic acetylacetonate ligands, leading to a large dispersion of molybdenum in oxidation state VI. This structure boosts formaldehyde yield in the MPO reaction, demonstrating the catalyst's potential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which can be reduced by complex reactions and the presence of a support. The support's role in lowering barriers, like propane adsorption, is critical for enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations, highlighting the significance of vanadium oxide catalysts in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, a process of significant interest. Higher alkanes like C&/C, can undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal, using ZSM-5 catalysts to convert light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolites, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and enhancing regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with differing kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes hinges on multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. While multifunctionality aids in design and mechanism understanding, it's not the sole determinant. Product stability is also crucial, ensuring industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, demonstrating higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites, key in petrochemical feedstock production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing potential for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, boosting benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism facilitates dehydrogenation and aromatization, highlighting improved catalytic activity and industrial importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that bridging O sites, due to weaker propoxide binding, facilitate easier propene production, emphasizing the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal catalyst performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, focusing on FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, boosts selectivity and longevity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in ethane dehydrogenation, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation, crucial for C6 aromatic formation. They enhance propane conversion and H2 production via recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking. Acting as 'portholes', these species remove H-atoms, improving efficiency and selectivity, yielding more propene and reducing by-products, with significant industrial impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The preferred mechanism involves the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group post-CH bond rupture, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as shown with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by optimized reaction conditions and catalyst modifications. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact activity. Understanding Mo species' real status during reactions and its role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is fundamental for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates optimally at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involving H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At low V loadings, VO4 tetrahedra dominate, achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions despite lower activity compared to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects selectivity and activity, crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, with monomeric vanadium oxide on silica playing a key role. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with propene formation faster on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are rate-determining, but VOSi sites can also participate without affecting overall kinetics. Recent DFT calculations reveal that vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, reaching up to 31.51%, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol, about 74%, is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves conversion but diminishes methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, featuring spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with higher V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst supports like silica, alumina, and titania affect selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being the most selective. The VOx-SBA-15 system offers a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence selectivity and activity. The Vw reduction rate controls the first oxidative dehydrogenation step, while the Vv amount governs the second oxidation step. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including crystalline phases and P:V ratio, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, but decreases specific activity. The PVO system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V:V ratio and surface oxygen concentration determine the mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species that enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity, fostering structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal species' stability and reactivity depend on their coordination environment. GaO+ species form multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations cleave CH bonds, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination enhance H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can decompose clusters via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, acidity, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing that the stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to coverage, while those needing multiple sites are. Interacting additives influence all reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, with acidic and basic additives affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, converting light alkanes to valuable products under mild conditions. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, with optimized composition and reaction conditions enhancing yields. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life, and are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures to avoid homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reaction rates. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly Ga+ species in ZSM-5 oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, showcasing the efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by molybdenum loading. High loadings lead to polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels, resulting in higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, ammonia-treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. This showcases the role of zeolite catalytic activity, iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties, highlighting progress in aromatic hydroxylation for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are notably effective, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification improves catalysts. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Surface oxygen species interact with methane, splitting the CH bond. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites promote methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic efficiency in alkane transformations, notably propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina surfaces yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra, enhancing catalytic performance at temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal introduction into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity, crucial for alkane transformations. This process increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, vital for industrial applications. These catalysts are significant for MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The CH bond weakness, caused by methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature, with residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributing to CO selectivity. The new grafted Mo/HZSM-5 catalyst greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO due to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts face high energy barriers, which are crucially above reactants' levels. Considering complex reactions and a triplet state can lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency. The necessity of a support for vanadium oxide highlights the importance of catalyst structure, as it significantly boosts efficiency in processes like zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, convert propane and butane to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Higher alkanes can undergo conversion without co-reactants, and methane conversion to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a significant research area, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Zn/H-MFI zeolites boost efficiency by leveraging Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated ions and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's selective oxidation role, product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity influence efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding, yet additional factors are crucial for comprehensive efficiency, essential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate high efficiency in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. Metal cations boost ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, facilitating heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium shows weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments that coordinate to gallium, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions and reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations, affecting efficiency and selectivity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Their performance is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, location, and feed composition. Developing catalysts with enhanced selectivity and longevity is a priority, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local concentration, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn, highlighting the role of hydrogen generation in aromatization mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction and reoxidation, significantly impact aromatization activity and selectivity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, as evidenced by increased H2 formation rates. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, crucial for propene production by deactivating acid sites. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species improve efficiency and selectivity, leading to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, vital for industrial processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation proceeds via two pathways: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with zinc cations facilitating the initial step. Dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes precedes dehydrocyclooligomerization in aromatization. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels via direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising alternative to conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior, with studies showing over 90% selectivity using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, highlighting the role of metal loading in catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance performance. Mo-zeolite interactions and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are critical for catalytic activity. Metals like Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrasting effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature also impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic efficiency. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over HZSM-5 is essential. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition influence zeolite activity. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C with silica as the ideal support. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface species' terminal oxo groups being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo- and Zn-containing ones, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane, with ethene selectivity outperforming oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts display VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loading, where tetrahedral V5+ species boost oxydehydrogenation selectivity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is essential, with hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites and subsequent steps involving VOSi bridging oxygen. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers, impacting efficiency. Supported vanadium oxide on silica models the process, and vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, with second hydrogen abstraction possibly occurring at VOSi bridging oxygen sites without altering overall kinetics.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are critical in alkane transformations, notably converting methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content significantly increases methane conversion, peaking at 31.51% for the highest content. The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates, achieving optimal methanol selectivity (74%) with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are pivotal: higher temperatures boost methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity, favoring methanol production at lower temperatures before further oxidation. The sodium form accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate-sized VOx domains for balanced surface activity and reactant access. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Support type impacts V reduction and activity, with V2O5-ZrO2 being more reactive. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with optimal performance at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is a key factor in catalyst design, with isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous and mesoporous materials being an attractive strategy. VOx-SBA-15 systems, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, provide a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, making them one of the best performing catalysts in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Reactants' redox properties modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is influenced by the feed's redox potential, oxidation, and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by Vw reduction, while further oxidation is governed by Vv availability. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics via a bifunctional mechanism: metals dehydrogenate alkanes, and Brnsted acid sites convert olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and inhibiting hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange, facilitating CH bond breakage in alkanes adsorbed on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces enhance reactivity, with extraframework metal species' stability and reactivity affected by coordination environment. GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports and species polymerization. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with vanadia coverage, with their role in reactions requiring further study. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. Reactions requiring one surface site show TOF independence of vanadia coverage, while those needing multiple sites are sensitive to coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing efficiency through optimized composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing conditions and novel regeneration methods improve yields and selectivities, mitigating deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities influence ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. Propene formation is eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2) maximize ethene and propene formation rates. Higher alkene yields are achieved at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. Catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures (<800 K) yield the highest alkene production.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, underscoring metal-based catalysts' importance in industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, with a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen impacts performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, enhancing stability. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Nonequilibrated catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated ones have stable V4+. These factors are essential for optimizing catalyst performance in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, influence methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with polymolybdates predominant at high molybdenum loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-treated catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion in the oxidation of benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, the matrix's composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties, highlighting factors critical for industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond split in methane is attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalyst properties are influenced by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K. Optimal propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The sublimation introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, critical for efficiency. These catalysts are vital in petrochemical processes due to their ability to catalyze under mild conditions. Acid site strength, metal species stability, and reducibility are key for alkane conversion and selectivity, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, featuring highly dispersed MoO42molybdenum(VI) species, is confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance spectra, XPS analysis, and XRD spectra, indicating the absence of MoO3 aggregates. The new catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's design offers potential for efficient alkane transformations, with residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributing to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are mitigated by considering a triplet state and complex O2 adsorption reactions. Support in vanadium oxide catalysts is critical, significantly reducing propane adsorption barriers and boosting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, like propane and butane, are converted to aromatics using ZSM-5 catalysts in processes such as aromatization, which also yields light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. This conversion isn't completely selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite alter alkane activation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms in propane involve dehydrogenation on Zn-sites and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, which is significant for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored in alkane oxidation catalysts, enhances efficiency when isolated. Multifunctionality aids design and clarifies mechanisms, yet isn't solely sufficient. Product stability, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity also impact efficiency, critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, enhancing aromatization. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo and Zn enhancing methane activation and increasing benzene yield as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and metal cation incorporation boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, crucial for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001), emphasizing the need for a balance between activation and propene release. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is overactive due to terminal O atoms. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane activation follows distinct pathways: zinc and basic oxygen sites induce strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium results in weak adsorption and ethyl/hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc produces Brnsted acid protons upon dissociation, whereas gallium forms gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting efficiency and selectivity, and are key to the industrial conversion of alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, using FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity in processes like methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state, location, and feed composition, impacting industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increased space velocity enhances BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to higher hydrogen diffusion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn produces hydrogen, unlike the paraffin-generating mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, including ion-exchange and reduction to Ga+, enhance propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are active for ethane dehydrogenation but less selective than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, affecting aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production, as reoxidized materials show higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, boosting H2 formation through recombinative desorption of H-atoms, and preventing cracking. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity without concurrent cracking. They increase propene yields by removing H-atoms from acid sites, reducing by-products, and enhancing industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, including ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via alkyl CH bond activation or carbenium activation. Aromatization of ethane and propane begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc cations accepting alkyl groups, and activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for key steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier, making it less favorable. These catalysts enhance aromatization selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with optimized conditions and catalyst modification enhancing efficiency. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is critical for methane dehydro-aromatization, influenced by the zeolite's channel structure, acidity, Mo's valence, and location. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P reduce it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature significantly affect performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, impacting the reaction mechanism. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is crucial for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, governed by the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-exchange zeolites catalyze the direct oxidation of methane into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, paralleling enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces enhance efficiency more than monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the Si/Fe molar ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen). Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation. Sodium Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing selectivity to olefins. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and substituting N2O for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, significantly impacts selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than those on alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, influencing catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants alter MoOx structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state and impact product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates, is critical. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. The P:V ratio is a key parameter, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation over hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and reducing activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, directly impacting the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, boosting ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are stable and reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. The presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds affects reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing critical roles. These catalysts facilitate the mild-condition activation of light alkanes, converting them into valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while addressing deactivation through regeneration methods extends operational life, bolstering industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with low surface density and isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal ethene and propene formation rates are achieved at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density exhibits the highest initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, with a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Higher molybdenum loading led to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. Ammonia-treated catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in alkane transformations, notably in the conversion of benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide properties, essential for organic synthesis technology development.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are crucial for methane's conversion to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification significantly impacts efficiency. Indirect methane conversion via synthesis gas production and direct conversion to ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics are viable routes. Oxidative coupling is an alternative direct conversion method. Surface oxygen species interact with methane for CH bond splitting. Studies show Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in catalyst activity. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4, affecting the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 enhances catalytic efficiency, with acidity and Lewis site strength following a specific sequence: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, and Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. Reaction conditions significantly influence selectivity and conversion. Industrially, these catalysts are vital for processes like MTG and olefin production from methanol, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This advancement is pivotal given the abundance of natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into methanol and formaldehyde, crucial for fuel and synthetic organic methods. The mechanism initiates with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase, with isolated MoO42species significantly enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, resulting in highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, which are confirmed by XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra. This method avoids the formation of MoO3 aggregates, observed with aqueous impregnation, leading to improved formaldehyde selectivity attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show that the triplet state lowers high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, crucial for efficiency. Supported vanadia exhibits lower barriers than unsupported, highlighting the support's role in enhancing adsorption and efficiency. Complex reactions, including O2 adsorption during water elimination, further reduce barriers, underscoring support's importance for vanadium oxide catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to alkenes and aromatics, including BTX, in dehydrogenation processes. Selectivity is partial, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. This addresses the conversion of light alkanes to more useful products, as seen in the catalytic conversion of methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, acting as a metal-exchanged catalyst, enables regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations, enhancing alkane activation for hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed, involving propane dehydrogenation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Zn modification promotes regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism, crucial for understanding oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation ([1]), with efficiency enhanced by vanadium ion isolation ([2]) and stable product formation ([3]). Multifunctionality ([4]) aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding, though not solely sufficient. C-H bond activation type ([8]) and acidity/basicity ([9]) significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate it to propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5(001) and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) demonstrates the role of lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, favoring propene production at the bridging O site, while the activity of terminal O atoms can hinder propene release, requiring a balance for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, enabling ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton generation. These differences in alkane activation directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, emphasizes selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for enhancing CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn has dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls the rate. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, particularly for propane. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts perform better than reduced ones. Reoxidation at high temperatures yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly influence the balance between alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity as a key indicator. Pretreatments notably impact catalyst performance in ethane dehydrogenation, demonstrating the importance of gallium's state in achieving high efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, increasing deuterium incorporation. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They elevate aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking turnover, critical for propene formation and minimizing by-product formation, thus optimizing industrial processes by improving reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zn-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via alkyl CH bond activation and less favorable carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation to alkenes initiates aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Key steps have activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. These catalysts enhance selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes, underscoring their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, are optimized through modification and reaction conditions. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 and strategic metal loading enhance reactivity and stability. Channel structure, acidity, and metal valence significantly affect performance. Pre-treatments and conditions greatly influence catalysis. Understanding Mo species' role and overcoming carbon deposit challenges are critical for advancing methane chemistry and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports high selectivities. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing diverse metals, efficiently convert alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for optimal selectivity in n-butane and ethane transformations. Selectivity for ethene surpasses that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, crucial for alkane transformations, vary with vanadium content, affecting both selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide and zeolite catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, featuring vanadyl sites, is essential in the rate-determining step of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, with the second possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Bulk vanadia sites exhibit higher activity than silica-supported monomers, highlighting the impact of catalyst structure on reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is significantly influenced by iron content, temperature, and catalyst form. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with optimal methanol selectivity at lower levels. Sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Increasing temperature and contact time elevates methane conversion but diminishes methanol selectivity. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures accelerate its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also hastens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    