Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported vanadium oxides are more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity, with the selectivity order following increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalyst design for efficient alkane oxidative dehydrogenation involves isolating active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally defined active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, significantly affects product formation. The valence state of vanadium, contingent on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst reduction rate, is crucial for selectivity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion yielding the best performance. The P:V ratio significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. The layered structure of vanadyl orthophosphate facilitates transformations to other phases, affecting catalytic performance. Understanding these factors is vital for optimizing alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species that facilitate H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, leading to olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, leading to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species formation. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are reactive, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can cause cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable under various environments, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, affecting their oxidation states. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support does. Surface acidity changes upon surface vanadia species formation, impacting reactivity. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, leading to higher product selectivity under optimized conditions. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending their life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene production is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities due to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods affecting morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios stabilizing (VO)P207, morphology impacting oxidizability, and additives enhancing performance. Low-temperature treatment and surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, key in alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Higher molybdenum loadings (>1.3 wt.%) decreased dispersion and blocked channels, affecting activity. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while ammonia-treated catalysts with monomeric species had lower conversion but higher selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been a focus for catalyst improvement. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Transition metals follow the activity sequence Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings on alumina surfaces form isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings yield VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches max temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The acidity ratio, from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, significantly affects selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) boosts activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The reaction between zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups and acetylacetonate ligands yields highly dispersed MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. Methane's CH bond weakness, due to zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence, while XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which might be reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The need for a support in vanadium oxide catalysts for propane adsorption highlights its role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic research targets light alkane conversion, with methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons as a key focus. Higher alkanes like propane and butane independently undergo conversion to alkenes, crucial in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity in alkane to aromatic conversion is limited, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with vanadium ions' isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhancing selectivity (Quote 2). Multifunctionality (Quotes 5, 6) is essential for catalyst design and understanding reaction mechanisms, though not solely sufficient (Quote 7). Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by C-H bond activation (Quote 8), acidity/basicity (Quote 9), and product stability, underlining their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize or further react to aromatics, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts are crucial in alkane transformations, notably in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts catalytic activity and methane activation, leading to higher benzene yields at increased methane partial pressures. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly affect efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in activation significantly affect hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity in valuable product production.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, enhancing product selectivity and catalyst longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition, making them pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-Zn's dehydrogenation is in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H's rate-controlled mechanism. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Different aromatization mechanisms, including hydrogen generation by ZSM-5-Zn and hydride transfer by ZSM-5-H, explain the varied behavior. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity; ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, crucial for processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization. These act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and boost propene formation by deactivating acid sites, improving efficiency and selectivity. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels increases aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, significantly impacting industrial yields by maximizing desired products and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the first aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and metal loading significantly affect catalyst behavior and efficiency, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivity at low methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Studies confirm that formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' location and valence, are crucial for catalytic performance. Loading of Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr enhances reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a negative impact. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly affect performance. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' introduction changes zeolite acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Understanding Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on fully covered oxide surfaces, especially with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface species being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, particularly those containing Mo or Zn, can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance activity. Acid site nature and number vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These factors are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are vital in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, by efficiently activating CH bonds, a critical step in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and their activity is significantly enhanced when part of the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers on silica, as indicated by recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature is critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe(III) incorporation into the framework affects reaction pathways, as confirmed by XRD patterns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is dictated by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from optimal VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O yielding a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, influences selectivity, with silica offering higher selectivity due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants lower activity but elevate propylene selectivity. Efficient catalyst design for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation requires isolated active sites, with microporous and mesoporous materials as promising strategies. However, high V contents can destabilize the structure. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, have catalytic properties and selectivity influenced by MoOx domain size and dopant effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the P:V ratio control selectivity and activity, with oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps influenced by V oxidation states. High Vv content leads to carbon oxides, while selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies by forming an intermediate with the alkane. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, leading to efficient alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, fostering the development of these relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are dictated by their coordination environment. Isolated GaO+ species in microporous spaces oligomerize into multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, boosting ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, diminishing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability on oxide supports, like A1203, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb205, and CeO2, is crucial for industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the oxidation state, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing only one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, while those requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Optimizing active sites, acidity, and pore structure enhances yield and selectivity, making light alkanes more valuable under mild conditions. This optimization extends catalyst life and boosts industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit enhanced propene formation rates, approximately eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface densities lead to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, significantly affecting ODH reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam addition, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207 and prevents V4+ oxidation. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and surface transformations during conditioning from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur, enhancing performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional or ammonia-washed impregnation, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. Higher Mo loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. These species are more reactive in methane activation but yield low formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving high selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant properties, highlighting metal-based catalysts' industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a notable catalyst, with performance boosts from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitate higher hydrocarbon formation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches optimal temperatures above 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. These species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 creates active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites progressively increases, crucial for efficiency: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant, catalyzing reactions like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild reaction conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits superior activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Prepared by washing, drying, and calcining, the catalyst yields [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, crucial for fuel and organic synthesis, is scientifically and industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is contingent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting results in isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species. XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is associated with residual acid sites. The new catalyst, with its specific MoO42activity, outperforms impregnated catalysts in formaldehyde yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show unexpectedly high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, surpassing experimental observations. These barriers can be lowered by considering complex reactions, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, or by using a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, particularly enhancing propane adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes that transform light gases to BTX aromatics. The conversion isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal in propane's methyl groups. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are critical for selective alkane oxidation. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are pivotal factors in the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, essential for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, underlining the industrial value of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, showcasing high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Single-crystal V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, but an efficient catalyst must balance this activation with propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for selectively oxidizing alkanes into valuable olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through unique ethane activation pathways, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium-modified ones weakly adsorb ethane, leading to dissociation at high temperatures into ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species, affecting hydrocarbon conversion selectivity. These catalysts' industrial value stems from their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion processes. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure, and are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, enhancing BTX formation at higher space velocities due to hydrogen depletion. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+, significantly impact aromatization activity and selectivity for alkane transformations. Reduced catalysts are active for propane aromatization but less selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics compared to reoxidized materials. Optimal, dispersed Ga3+ is generated at 550C, enhancing ethane aromatization under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatic yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations, specifically propane dehydrogenation, by increasing conversion rates and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, enhancing propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking turnover. This improves efficiency and selectivity, yielding higher desired product yields and minimizing by-products, making these catalysts industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, with activation energies for the three steps being 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being a studied alternative. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies on W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveal formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. The interaction between Mo and transition metal ions with zeolite supports affects aromatics and carbonaceous deposits' formation. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, coupled with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings, including Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature, along with pre-treatments and reaction conditions, notably influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, impacting the reaction mechanism. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a significant obstacle to reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency; activity rises and selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic efficiency. These insights underscore the critical role of vanadium species and acid sites in optimizing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, as evidenced by a 31.51% conversion rate with the catalyst containing the largest iron content (Quote 6). The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity, around 74%, is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C but diminishes at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11 and 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at monolayer active phase loading. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, influences selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds reduce activity. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed significantly impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, influencing product formation. A two-step process is involved in converting alkanes to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The P:V ratio in the vanadium phosphorus oxide system is critical for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated in the products being higher in the but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkane conversion to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatization. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond breakage. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites, forming Zn-alkyl species that enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity understanding. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations promote heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Stable Ga3+ coordination in dimers facilitates H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feeds boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, as evidenced by increased dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolites, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the behavior of these species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, but the specific oxide support can influence their reactivity. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while noninteracting additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives impact the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing key roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Initial alkene selectivity is highest with isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly gallium in MFI zeolites, significantly enhance alkane transformation efficiency. Oxidation of Ga/ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods that affect morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios that stabilize (VO)P207, and additives that impact oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion varies with composition. Polymolybdate species, dominant at Mo loadings >1.3 wt.%, reduce dispersion and block HZSM-5 channels. Monomeric species, well-dispersed in treated catalysts, enhance formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, demonstrating specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, showcasing the impact of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features on catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations. This highlights promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical conversion strategy. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and mechanisms are revealed through studies. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and conditions, are pivotal in alkane transformations. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propane oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. Phase composition, coordination, and dispersion are critical for catalytic performance at high temperatures and vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts catalytic efficiency by forming active species, increasing acidity in the order HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis sites strongest in Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild operating conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After grafting and calcination, the catalyst exhibits highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane's conversion to methanol and formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The CH bond's weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, activates methane. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm MoO42species, indicating successful grafting. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's isolated MoO42species boost formaldehyde production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers are larger than those observed for supported vanadia, suggesting complex reactions like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination could lower them. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation. This conversion, though not fully selective, yields BTX components and light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures, impacting catalyst performance. Light alkanes are also transformed into methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes convertible without co-reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, enhancing hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation [1]. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix [2] and product stability [3] are essential. Multifunctionality [4] is a design criterion and aids in understanding reaction mechanisms [5-6], though not solely sufficient [7]. C-H bond activation [8] and acidity/basicity [9] also significantly influence efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, with benzene yield positively correlated to methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the importance of metal cations in improving ZSM-5's catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization, showcasing the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalyze alkane transformations via distinct mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures for heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for hydrocarbon conversions in industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion, achieving higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. Their efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The main conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn has dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it is rate-controlled. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with the paraffin-generating hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, as reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, and high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes and cycloalkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for processes like propane dehydrocyclodimerization. They facilitate H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and enhance propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species catalyze H-atom desorption, increasing H2 formation and improving efficiency, which is industrially significant for boosting desired product yields and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization starts with alkane dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor in the CH bond rupture mechanism. Activation energies for key steps highlight the efficiency of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by Banares et al.'s 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are critical. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support, especially Mo species in HZSM-5, are pivotal for catalytic performance and understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic performance. Acid sites alteration by Mo species and second metal addition affects zeolite's activity. Methane activation mode and heavy carbonaceous deposit formation pose major challenges in reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity. A narrow temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with VV surface sites' terminal oxo species being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings feature tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings favor octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites initially, with subsequent abstraction possible at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit greater activity than silica-supported monomers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the sodium form enhancing selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time significantly impact efficiency: higher values increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for understanding its catalytic behavior in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal rates per vanadium atom. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania. Active VOx domains' properties can be altered by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but boost propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxides are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increasing with Mo surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting mechanisms and efficiency. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, dependent on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst's oxidation/reduction rates, controls selectivity. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are critical. Two reaction steps are identified: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, influenced by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, plays a crucial role in reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The PVO system exhibits rich intercalation chemistry, affecting catalytic performance. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The reactivity and interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, influencing the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn and Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst Brnsted acid sites, promoting alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing coordination and reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo species aid ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts dehydrogenation activity by increasing reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are vital for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The reactivity of these species is predominantly associated with the dehydrated V(5+) form, with the bridging V-O-support bond playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting the turnover frequency (TOF). Noninteracting metal oxide additives can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, can modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency through active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Their industrial significance lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, with novel regeneration methods mitigating deactivation and extending catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed structural characterization and kinetic analysis reveal that two-dimensional poly-vanadates form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed at low vanadia surface densities. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with propene formation being more favorable than ethene. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Additives, like Zn2+, prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation methods significantly impact methane conversion to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation leads to polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Impregnation followed by ammonia washing creates a dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion. Monomeric Mo=O species are crucial for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the catalyst's efficiency. Factors influencing this efficiency include the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. Progress in this area could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal for methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, along with active species and mechanisms, is revealed through studies. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen, minimizing CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites is effective, though coke formation poses a challenge. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. VO4 units form at lower vanadium loadings, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic process, benefits from high vanadium dispersion, particularly isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which enhance propene selectivity. AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. Higher vanadium loadings correlate with increased AlVO4 portion, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation, enhance acidity and catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. The strength of Lewis sites follows Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, impacting the efficiency of processes like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, significant in the petrochemical industry. These catalysts' ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MPO catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations. This catalyst shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts, attributed to the presence of highly dispersed MoO42species. The reaction between the complex and surface OH groups, avoiding water, prevents MoO3 aggregation. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the weakness of the CH bond due to zeolite surface interaction, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with residual acid sites influencing CO selectivity. The specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, but complex reactions like O2 adsorption and support involvement can lower these barriers, improving efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes, specifically propane and butane, to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar. Aromatization to BTX components is not fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, crucial for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Regioselectivity is due to dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism for H/D exchange, highlighting the impact of Zn modification on reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation, with vanadium's isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhancing performance. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality is crucial for catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet not solely sufficient. These insights are pivotal for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, crucial for converting light alkanes to aromatics in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene and other products under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, showcasing their potential for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield, with higher methane partial pressure enhancing performance. A carbenium ion mechanism underlies the dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, highlighting the industrial importance of these metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The distinction between terminal and bridging lattice O atoms influences CH bond activation, with radical and oxo-insertion pathways viable at the terminal O site, and only oxo-insertion at the bridging O site. Propoxide's weaker binding at the bridging O facilitates easier propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to excessive activity at the terminal O, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the industrial need for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences in activation directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion is crucial, with efficiency and selectivity influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrating how these factors impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Propene formation and secondary oxidation rates are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments significantly impact gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized materials are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, H2 formation, and preventing cracking. These catalysts enhance H2 production via recombinative desorption, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking turnover. This improves reaction rates and selectivities, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, drive alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and less favorable carbenium activation, with high activation barriers. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism. Activation energies for key steps highlight the efficiency of these processes, crucial for industrial aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at low methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and their valence, location are critical for catalytic performance. Metal loading, including Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhances reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures also impact performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature, pressure, and pre-treatments, significantly affect catalytic efficiency. The alteration of acid sites by Mo species and second metals influences zeolite activity, impacting the mechanisms of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, are crucial for selective alkane transformations, especially for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities due to its stabilization of isolated centers. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially relevant, catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization of methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion into ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane (Quotes 2, 3). Selectivity favors ethene over butane oxydehydrogenation products (Quote 4). Tetrahedral V5+ species at low loadings and octahedral at high loadings influence selectivity, with higher oxydehydrogenation selectivity on tetrahedral species (Quote 6). Acid sites, predominantly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also impact efficiency (Quote 7). These factors are pivotal for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a pivotal step, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is catalyzed by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than as supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity to oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Selectivity for methane to methanol is best with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Structural details, including Fe(III) framework incorporation, are crucial for catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Higher V2O5 loading in vanadium oxide catalysts boosts activity, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of vanadium reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with optimal reactivity at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali dopants inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, impact alkane transformations through redox properties that alter the catalyst surface, affecting product formation. A two-step mechanism is involved in maleic anhydride synthesis: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, followed by further oxidation dependent on Vv availability. High Vv content risks over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods, including solvent type, influence crystallinity and defect structure, impacting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio is pivotal, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio improves n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic performance. A single-site mechanism supports selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit distinct kinetic behaviors, suggesting unique catalyst surface effects, with Vv phosphate serving as the oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond cleavage. Zn species interact with alkanes inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that promote dehydrogenation and H/D exchange. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization, with Zn influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces' reactivity is studied, developing structure-activity insights. GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These findings underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are pivotal for reactivity. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in hydrocarbon oxidation, with the latter being critical for reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives, acidic or basic, modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of reactions is reaction-specific and influenced by additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being pivotal. These catalysts convert light alkanes into aromatics and isomers efficiently, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts transformation efficiency, enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, and similar activation energies. Optimal alkene yield is achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Higher vanadia surface densities lead to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, involving isolated cations or extraframework oxygen atoms, activate alkanes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the efficiency of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives, preventing overoxidation. A slight excess of phosphorus optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. The preparation method determines the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and influences V5+ reduction, which is kinetically controlled by the type of aliphatic alcohol. The P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology affects the oxidizability of (VO),P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. An optimal P/V ratio ensures the right balance between reducibility and reoxidizability, enhancing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking, leading to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity. The second series, featuring well-dispersed monomeric species, showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties, suggesting potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Studies reveal the transition metal activity sequence as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, boosts efficiency. Indirect processes, involving synthesis gas production and Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, and direct routes to ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics are explored. Oxidative coupling of methane, a direct conversion alternative, has been extensively researched. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts yields benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes using supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Surface oxygen species interaction likely initiates the CH bond splitting in methane. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are also investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. Lower loadings favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra. Concentrated feeds enhance the exothermic reaction, achieving high temperatures. Optimal propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 show low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. Reaction conditions, including temperature and atmosphere, affect active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is significant for converting vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, when interacting with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafted catalyst yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to the catalyst's performance, with CO selectivity influenced by surface covering. The new catalyst greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions compared to classical impregnated W and Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental values for supported vanadia. Incorporating O2 adsorption during water elimination and using a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst can significantly lower these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as Oleflex. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes and BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at high temperatures. Higher alkanes can transform without co-reactants, and methane conversion to methanol or higher hydrocarbons is a key research area.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and promoting hydrogen removal in propane's regioselective H/D exchange. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are pivotal for selective alkane oxidation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality alone is insufficient, highlighting the need for a balanced approach in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing natural gas utilization challenges. These catalysts show high activity and selectivity at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with rising methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism underpins methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that bridging lattice O atoms, due to weaker propoxide binding, are more conducive to propene production than terminal O atoms, which hinder propene release due to excessive activity. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over zinc involves heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong polarizability (quote 4), whereas gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments (quote 6). Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, in contrast to gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons (quote 7). These differences significantly affect hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is driven by enhancing selectivity and longevity. Factors such as pretreatment, temperature, metal state, and feed composition significantly impact efficiency and selectivity, as demonstrated by FePO4 for alkane conversion and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics processes. These insights are critical for designing effective industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, affecting selectivity with space velocity. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with hydrogen generation on ZSM-5-Zn versus hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects, and for high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and H2 production. They facilitate hydrogen disposal through recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking (Quote 6). This increases aromatic turnover while reducing cracking turnover (Quote 7). Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing efficiency and selectivity (Quote 10). They increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking product formation (Quote 9). Consequently, these species are crucial for industrial processes, improving the extraction of valuable H2 from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane dehydrogenation follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism. These processes are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization, crucial for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, with studies showing over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveals formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 and the modification of acid sites by metal addition are crucial for catalytic efficiency. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly affect performance. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, with heavy carbon deposits hindering reaction understanding and process development. The role of Mo species during the reaction is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. The conversion involves metalalkyl intermediates and complex mechanisms. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At low V loadings, VO4 tetrahedra are observed, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting industrial significance through selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being a fundamental step in industrial and enzymatic processes. In oxidative dehydrogenation, the first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, significantly impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. These findings highlight the critical role of catalyst composition and reaction conditions in controlling the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state and affect product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is crucial. A deeper understanding of surface modifications can enhance selectivity. In the conversion of alkanes to maleic anhydride, the P:V ratio and vanadium states (Vw and Vv) control the reaction's two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including phase interconversion, is crucial for catalytic performance. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. The PVO system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability, such as the difference between a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn's promoting effect on H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes enhances reaction rates and lowers activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond cleavage, forming Zn-alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, crucial for enhanced aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships optimize catalytic performance, with confined spaces in zeolites affecting reactivity. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form for optimal coordination, and binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition boosts dehydrogenation activity by increasing reactive oxygenated species concentration, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with surface Lewis acid sites decreasing and surface BrCnsted acid sites increasing upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being pivotal. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable aromatics and isomers. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed structural characterization reveals that distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures are prevalent at low surface densities, while two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher densities. The rate per V atom increases with surface density, even as V atoms become less available for catalysis. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly GaO+ ions formed by oxidizing Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide, significantly enhance dehydrogenation activity, stabilized by steam. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the efficiency of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction, impacting catalytic behavior. A P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing performance. Certain additives, like Zn2+, prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives improve catalyst performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, affecting reactivity. An optimal catalyst composition with a slight excess of phosphorus avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by molybdenum species and preparation methods. Two series were tested: conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high loading decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but reduced formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics with dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with Mo exhibiting superior activity. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve catalyst stability. Zeolite micropore modification and the interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species are pivotal for CH bond splitting. Direct and indirect methane conversion routes exist, the latter involving synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane and catalysts like PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based zeolites facilitate aromatization, with studies noting the importance of preparation and treatment methods. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts enable methane activation and transformation into higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and vanadium loadings, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra form at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, reaching 873 K, benefits from a high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 show low activity. Studies at high temperatures and loadings reveal correlations between phase composition, coordination, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry, due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) activity, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Interaction with zeolite surface OH groups yields highly dispersed MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening by zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly increases formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which are notably reduced by considering a triplet state and further lowered by more complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The necessity of a support for vanadium oxide to reduce propane adsorption barriers highlights its role in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX. Aromatization selectivity is partial, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane transformations. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, facilitating hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselectivity are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolite alters the exchange mechanism, promoting regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation (Quote [1]) and the isolation of its ions in a stable matrix (Quote [2]) enhance efficiency. Product stability (Quote [3]) and multifunctionality, involving C-H bond activation (Quote [8]) and acidity/basicity (Quote [9]), are pivotal. These factors, essential for industrial processes like oxidative dehydrogenation, ensure catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, exhibiting high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, dehydrogenation, and aromatization. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, supporting an industrial application. The carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly impact process efficiency. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal catalyst performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting hydrocarbon conversions in oxidative dehydrogenation. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for valuable product formation like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. Industrial methane conversion processes require catalysts with higher selectivity and longer life.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization; dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn rises slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Radical-chain reactions on ZSM-5-H are speculative, while different aromatization mechanisms are suggested for ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites (Quote 2). Reduced catalysts are as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures (Quote 3). For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials outperform reduced ones; reoxidation at 550C yields dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen (Quotes 4, 6). Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, as per [2]. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without cracking, enhancing H2 formation [5]. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom disposal, improving efficiency and selectivity [10]. They increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting aromatic turnover rates [9]. This selective H-atom removal contributes to high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two distinct routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene is the initial aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, starting the mechanism with ethane CH bond rupture. Activation energies for key steps highlight the efficiency of these processes. The less favorable carbenium activation route has a high activation barrier. These catalysts' industrial significance lies in enhancing selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Our study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen reveals that formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with acid sites changing upon Mo introduction, affecting the reaction mechanism. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development. The Mo species' role in the reaction pathway is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species as active sites, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing a variety of metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, boost selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. The nature of acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects catalytic performance, with Lewis sites predominant at low loadings and both Lewis and Brnsted sites present at high loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are central to alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step, similar to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, with Fe(III) in framework sites, and reaction conditions critically determine the reaction pathways and product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    