Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics (Quote 1). In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom occur on VOx domains of intermediate size (Quote 2). Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development (Quote 3). Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced during steady-state alkane oxidation (Quote 6). Higher surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene (Quote 7). The extent of V5+ reduction and catalyst reactivity depend on the support material (Quote 9). Silica-supported catalysts are more selective than alumina- and titania-supported ones (Quote 11). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance (Quote 13). Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene (Quote 15). Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites (Quote 17), and isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous materials is promising (Quote 18). Maintaining structure and stability in catalysts with high vanadium content is challenging (Quote 19). VOx-SBA-15, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, is a high-performing catalyst in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 21). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 22), but their activity increases with Mo surface density (Quote 23). Alkali dopants affect MoOx domains' structure and properties, influencing activity and selectivity (Quotes 25, 26, 28).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation and reduction rates at the reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. The first step of oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second step is governed by the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, plays a crucial role in the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting the type of products formed.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, facilitating alkane CH bond breakage. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, with their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with their stability, determined by the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by net pH and surface point of zero charge, consist of terminal V=O and bridging V-O-support bonds, and are stable under reducing and reaction environments. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reduction in H2 and CO environments forms surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability on oxide supports like Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb2O5, and CeO2 contributes to industrial catalyst longevity. Surface acidity and preparation methods influence reactivity, with the number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depending on the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing one surface vanadia site are insensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives, while reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to these factors. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and acidic and basic additives influence selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, with optimized composition and conditions boosting yields and selectivity. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species and high temperatures. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane conversion. Oxidation of Ga/ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, and water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species. At high loading, polymolybdate species cause decreased dispersion and channel blocking, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are key in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative hydroxylation is influenced by the zeolite's catalytic activity, iron's role, the matrix's chemical composition, and the oxidant's specific features. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrates nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, showcasing potential for efficient organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a critical strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a potent catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification significantly boosts efficiency. Methane conversion routes include indirect synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, and direct ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics production. Oxidative coupling of methane has been extensively studied. Methane activates over multi-component catalysts to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5, with Mo, W, Fe, V, Cr showing varying activities. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation method, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Optimal propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation create active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. Reaction conditions, including temperature and atmosphere, impact active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto dried HZSM-5 and calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. Unlike aqueous impregnation, which forms MoO3 aggregates, this process results in isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. Efficiency is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on these factors. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm MoO42species presence, while XRD spectra show no MoO3 peaks, indicating successful grafting. Performance is influenced by the interaction between the complex and surface OH groups, leading to highly dispersed oxo species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly higher than for supported vanadia. The support's role in lowering barriers, particularly for propane adsorption, is critical for enhancing efficiency, highlighting its importance in catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatization processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes yields alkenes alongside BTX, lacking complete selectivity. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, changing alkane activation mechanisms to favor hydrogen removal. Two key mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation, especially when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix, is critical. Efficiency is enhanced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. While multifunctionality is essential, it's not solely adequate, highlighting the complexity of catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in non-oxidizing conditions for methane conversion to benzene at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, with benzene yield rising as methane partial pressure increases. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in selective methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is too active for propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid proton creation. These distinct activation mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, affecting efficiency and selectivity, and are crucial for the industrial conversion of alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion processes, focusing on FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) vary with vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatic adsorption on ZSM-5-Zn involves electron transfer and radical generation, differing from ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Hydrogen generation during aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn contrasts with paraffin generation over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and space velocity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ at 550C. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen, and prevent cracking by removing H-atoms from acid sites, increasing propene and aromatic yields. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Alkane aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate the ethane CH bond rupture, acting as alkyl group acceptors. Activation energies for key steps highlight the mechanism's efficiency, with the carbenium activation route being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance zeolite selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Converting methane to valuable fuels via direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is challenging but could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with studies showing 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Research on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane oxidation to formaldehyde indicates selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformations. Their efficiency is enhanced by modifying catalysts and optimizing conditions. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metals, including Ru and Pt, boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly influence performance. Mo introduction changes zeolite acid sites, affecting methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate with various proposed mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder understanding and process development, while the real status of Mo species during reactions is key for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica-supported catalysts achieve high selectivity at a narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving CH bond activation and formation of metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites can also coaromatize methane and alkanes, with some directly converting methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts crucially affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity rising and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for butane oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts display VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings; octahedral species exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions compared to tetrahedral species. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also significantly influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a pivotal step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly affect alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates, achieving optimal methanol selectivity at lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction mechanisms. The speed of methanol and carbon dioxide production differs depending on the catalyst form, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors are the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and support type. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is single-site under high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates reversible CH bond formation and cleavage, forming intermediates with alkanes. Zn-alkyl species on Zn-modified zeolites boost aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted acid sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, promoting dehydrogenation and subsequent aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, studied through spectroscopy and theory. Gallium in high-silica zeolites forms multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations boost heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Reduced basicity and stable coordination facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency boosted by optimizing their composition and reaction conditions. Novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, prolonging operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene selectivity is observed at low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Previous studies on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have shown inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species oxidation by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two preparation methods were used: conventional impregnation yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulting in well-dispersed monomeric species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for phenol production. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, making it a promising direction for organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are revealed through studies. Oxygen is essential for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, like propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina surfaces form isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings yield VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites creates active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. Reaction conditions affect active species and performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields, making them economically viable for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances alkane transformation efficiency. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by interaction with the zeolite surface, activates the transformation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm MoO42species presence, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's specific activity boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, highlighting its industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are reduced by considering a triplet state and further lowered by complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The support's involvement in vanadium oxide catalysts is critical for barrier reduction, highlighting its importance in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at reaction temperatures, preventing zinc volatilization. Selectivity remains a challenge due to the formation of light alkenes alongside BTX components.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Vanadium's selective oxidation ability and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient. The type of C-H bond activation and the balance of acidity and basicity are also pivotal, significantly impacting the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, with subsequent dehydrogenation yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize, while hydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions, shifting the equilibrium toward propylene formation. Catalyst efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with Mo and Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane pressure increases benzene yield, highlighting the carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation and the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations due to their high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, converting alkanes to valuable olefins. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlights the importance of balancing CH bond activation and propene release; both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release, making V2O5(001) unsuitable. An efficient catalyst must balance these factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms, crucial for hydrocarbon conversions. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with dissociation at high temperatures yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride species. These activation differences directly influence reaction efficiency and selectivity, with industrial importance in selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are key catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition, which are pivotal for optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, forming earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn, with aromatization generating hydrogen. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, akin to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts at 550C are more active and selective, generating a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, with the dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels significantly impacting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. Acting as 'portholes', they facilitate H2 formation and propene production, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two paths: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1). Alkane aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The carbenium activation route is less preferred due to a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly affects catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation to formaldehyde demonstrate selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially affect alkane transformations. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite supports and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature impact efficiency. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with acid sites changing upon introduction of Mo and a second metal. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, while Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing various metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity rising and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency. These factors are pivotal for optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in industrial and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models, with hydrogen abstraction primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites playing a secondary role without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than monomers on silica in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Longer contact times and higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. The composition, structure, and reaction conditions are pivotal in controlling the efficiency and selectivity of alkane transformations, as evidenced by the highest methane conversion with the largest iron content and the highest selectivity of methane to methanol oxidation with the lowest iron content.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties of reactants alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is influenced by vanadium's valence state. The P:V ratio significantly affects selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a specific ratio. Surface oxygen concentration and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction are critical for selective conversion to maleic anhydride. Different catalyst phases, like a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, have varying stability and reactivity, affecting catalytic performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn enhances H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species, leading to Zn alkyl species formation. Synergetic action between Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly affecting alkane CH bond activation by acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can degrade clusters, reducing reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts (Quote 7). The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film (Quote 10), are crucial for understanding their reactivity (Quote 2). Surface vanadia species can be reduced in reducing environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species (Quote 12), and the molecular structures of these reduced species can be determined using various spectroscopic techniques (Quote 13). The influence of hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments on the oxidation states of surface vanadia species has been examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy (Quote 14). The stability of the V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be related to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species (Quote 16). Preparation methods do not significantly influence the molecular structure of surface vanadia species (Quote 17). The specific structure or modification of the oxide support does not affect the local structure of surface vanadia species (Quote 20). Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 crystalline powders have both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites (Quote 22). The formation of surface vanadia species on oxide supports decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases the number of surface Br0nsted acid sites (Quote 23). The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand (Quote 25). The reactivity properties of supported vanadia catalysts are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species (Quote 26). The number of surface vanadia sites required for a hydrocarbon oxidation reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule (Quote 35). Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites (Quote 60). Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific (Quote 61). Supported vanadia catalysts have unique physical and chemical characteristics, contributing to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, prolonging operational life. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, converting them into valuable products, making them industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit varying oxidative dehydrogenation rates for ethane and propane, influenced by surface density and structure. Propene formation is eight times faster than ethene at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. As surface density increases, poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reactivity. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with low vanadia surface density and high reaction temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, driving processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, activate alkanes. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam. Ga/ZSM-5 exhibits superior dehydrogenation activity over HZSM-5, facilitated by water-promoted formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, which lowers hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations aid hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair of Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology, (001) plane exposure, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species, dominant at >1.3 wt.% Mo, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels, and another with a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase featuring tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient in selective oxidation reactions, such as the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-ZSM-5 achieves nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting iron's role and the importance of the zeolite matrix composition in catalyst efficiency. This process, using dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant, showcases potential for efficient organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key conversion strategy. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane offers an alternative direct conversion route since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane for benzene and carbonaceous deposit formation. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods significantly affect catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, is studied under concentrated feed conditions. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, significantly affecting alkane selectivity and conversion. Reaction conditions influence active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically converting methane to methanol/formaldehyde. A novel MPO catalyst was synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, outperforming conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts in catalytic activity. This innovation, avoiding water, yields highly dispersed MoO42species, critical for formaldehyde selectivity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirmed the catalyst's structure and Mo(VI) state. The mechanism involves methane's interaction with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond. The new catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield, attributed to isolated MoO42species' activity. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influence CO selectivity. This advancement is industrially significant for converting abundant methane into valuable organic compounds.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show higher energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide than experimental data suggests. Using a support for vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, improving efficiency in alkane transformations, as seen in complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to aromatics and alkenes using ZSM-5 catalysts in processes targeting BTX production. Zinc in ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Gallium or gallium-zinc ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These conversions are not fully selective, with light alkenes also forming as intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, Zn2+ cations in metal-based catalysts like Zn/H-MFI zeolite significantly influence efficiency by acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal. Two regioselectivity mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are essential. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications, as highlighted by the multifaceted role of vanadium and the criteria for catalyst design and reaction mechanism explanation.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination, yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization, influenced by reactant pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process efficiently converts light alkanes to aromatics, critical petrochemical feedstocks, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 boosts methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with methane partial pressure. Metal cation addition enhances dehydrogenation and aromatization, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations for efficient methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with bridging O sites favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Ethane activation over zinc-modified catalysts involves strong adsorption, heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, and Brnsted acid proton formation. Gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These activation differences crucially affect hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency, underscoring the industrial relevance of these catalysts in selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion, featuring FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are crucially affected by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, underscoring their industrial importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is significantly influenced by pretreatments, affecting aromatization and dehydrogenation. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, essential for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, leading to higher yields of propene and reduced by-products, enhancing industrial significance through improved reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the zinc cation facilitating the alkyl group's acceptance. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by Banares et al. achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite being crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, alongside Mo's valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loadings, including Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures significantly influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic efficiency. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition alter reaction pathways, affecting methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation, which are contentious issues hindering process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze multifunctional reactions including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and alkyl intermediate formation, converting alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, while selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at lower loadings enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species at higher loadings boost activity. The nature of acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, varies with vanadium content, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica surfaces, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably methane conversion and methanol selectivity, is influenced by iron content, catalyst form, and reaction conditions. Higher iron content in Fe-HZSM-5 boosts methane conversion to 31.51%, while sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Methanol selectivity peaks with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is optimal at 350°C, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Methanol production and oxidation to carbon dioxide vary with catalyst form, being faster with Fe-NaZSM-5 than Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loadings. Binary dispersed structures and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, altering the catalyst's surface oxidation state and affecting product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio significantly impact selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's intercalation chemistry and phase stability, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio, with a sweet spot at 1.1, influences selectivity and activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is enhanced by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Oxygen balances in the oxidation of but-1-ene and n-butane reveal that Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion, highlighting the difference in reactivity between hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species interact with zeolite acid sites, providing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is contingent on composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy aids in understanding structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic optimization. Zeolites' confined spaces' reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, revealing structure-activity correlations. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to optimal metal center coordination, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, essential for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Surface vanadia species can reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface vanadia sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on composition, structure, and reaction conditions, specifically active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, prolonging operational life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest alkene yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. A slight excess of phosphorus optimizes the balance between reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by their composition and structure. Two preparation methods were used: conventional impregnation led to monomeric and polymolybdate species, with high loading decreasing dispersion and blocking channels; ammonia washing resulted in well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the cost of methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, suggesting potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy in methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms are revealed through advanced studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched to improve catalytic efficiency. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts produces benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ion-supported HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ion effects, preparation, and treatment methods are studied, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr for activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The addition of a second metal component is explored for improved activity or stability. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are investigated, as is methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, enhancing propene selectivity, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. The exothermic reaction reaches high temperatures in catalytic beds. Isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for alkane transformations, increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase product yields. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility are critical for selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde selectivity. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde a key component in organic synthesis. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. The new grafted catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions involving O2 adsorption. The adsorption barrier reduction is facilitated by a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, emphasizing the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. This regioselectivity stems from dehydrogenation and heterolytic dissociative adsorption mechanisms. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those on H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism, underscoring its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation, with vanadium ions' isolation in a stable matrix and product stability being critical (Quotes 1, 2, 3). Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, though it's not solely sufficient (Quotes 4, 5, 6, 7). C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity significantly influence efficiency (Quotes 8, 9). These factors are essential for the industrial significance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, crucial for converting light alkanes to aromatics in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing natural gas utilization challenges. Under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, these catalysts show high activity and selectivity. Mo and Zn incorporation enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts through efficient conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the importance of balancing CH bond activation and propene release for an efficient catalyst. Terminal O atoms are too reactive for propene release, underscoring the need for a controlled activation-release mechanism. These catalysts are industrially significant as they selectively oxidize inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates weak adsorption and dissociation at high temperatures, producing ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, making the catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by reaction conditions, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 is effective for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics, highlighting specific catalysts' roles in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increased space velocity enhances BTX formation in ZSM-5-Zn due to higher hydrogen diffusion rates. Aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn may undergo secondary demethylation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's aromatization generates hydrogen, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 (Quote 3). However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production (Quote 4). Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion (Quote 6). Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates (Quote 11), and high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes effectively at 500-600C (Quote 12). Catalysts with reoxidized Ga3+ are most active for aromatics production, not reduced Ga+ (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing propene formation. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving H2 selectivity and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the first step in ethane and propane aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to C1 oxygenates, notably formaldehyde, is pivotal for potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies with MoO3/SiO2 and W/HZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, highlighting the critical role of metal loading and surface species dispersion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 being critical for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5, along with Mo species' valence and location, significantly impact catalytic performance. Loading metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhances reactivity and stability, while reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence efficiency. The introduction of Mo species modifies the zeolite's acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Understanding the real status of Mo species during reactions is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support, stabilizing isolated centers for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide is influenced by the Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen). Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature raises methane conversion (Quote 9) but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O substitution for O2 promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, influences reactivity and selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for efficient catalyst design. In Mo-based catalysts, activity per Mo atom increases with surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, while MoOx domain size affects Mo-O bond strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, but enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, influenced by the amount of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst redox properties are preparation-dependent, with the P:V ratio being a key determinant of selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits facile phase formation and interconversion, influenced by synthesis variables. The P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure significantly impact the reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. Surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, enhancing olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for dehydrogenation. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions impact mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, showing how confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity through the coordination of extraframework metal species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species in zeolites facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, essential for ethane dehydrogenation. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase affect the molecular structure and reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the reactant molecule, with reactions requiring multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic oxides, can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species and influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, although the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is governed by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes conversion under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while regeneration methods address deactivation, crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, and similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, maximize alkene production. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density exhibits the highest initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. Optimal olefin yields are achieved on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations in aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of reactive gallium species, reducing reaction energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the influence of catalyst composition and conditions on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation techniques affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and reduction of V5+. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and specific additives prevent overoxidation. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Catalyst conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species, dominant at high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%), decreasing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels (Quote 3). The second series, with well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species, showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 6). Polymolybdate species led to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly effective in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. This highlights the role of iron and the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix in catalyst efficiency, promising new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and mechanisms is crucial. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation necessitates strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons without CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been widely studied. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Non-oxidative conditions allow methane to benzene conversion in flow reactors. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by vanadium loadings, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, with high dispersion, are active in propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Introducing Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 increases acidity, crucial for efficiency. Active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, contribute to this. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility affect selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MPO catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhance alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions compared to classical impregnation catalysts. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating the catalyst's structure. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation methods, is confirmed by XRD spectra. The high CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, exceeding experimental findings. Support for vanadium oxide catalysts reduces propane adsorption barriers, crucial for enhancing efficiency, highlighting the support's role in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts transform light alkanes like methane into methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes, such as propane and butane, undergo dehydrogenation independently, central to Oleflex and aromatization processes, converting light gases to aromatics, notably BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation and enhancing regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Two proposed mechanisms for propane dehydrogenation are: (i) dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix being pivotal. Efficiency is enhanced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not sufficient alone. These factors are essential for the industrial significance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts are crucial in propane activation, starting with dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups then dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane follow a carbenium ion mechanism, crucial for industrial applications due to high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with the latter facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is overly active for propene release. These catalysts are significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites, drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane for heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride without Brnsted acids. These differences critically affect hydrocarbon conversion efficiency and selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition, which are key to optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rates, whereas ZSM-5-Zn operates near equilibrium. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn may arise from secondary demethylation. Aromatization mechanisms differ: ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H involves hydride transfer, producing paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts match physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures in propane aromatization activity. Reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state impact alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects on catalyst performance. Aromatics yields are boosted by trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts feature reoxidized Ga3+ rather than Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H2 formation from dehydrogenation steps. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing propene formation and reducing cracking products. This increases aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, crucial for industrial processes by optimizing desired product yields and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Alkyl activation involves zinc cations accepting the alkyl group, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Metal loading influences surface species dispersion, impacting formaldehyde selectivity. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The interaction of metal ions with zeolite supports affects aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, coupled with Mo species' valence and location, are crucial for catalytic performance. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact efficiency. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite properties. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, posing a challenge for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters, as per quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, as mentioned in quote 6. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction by reactive terminal oxo species, facilitates alkane transformations, as stated in quote 7. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkane-to-alkene and alkane-to-aromatic conversions, with metalalkyl intermediates playing a key role, as highlighted in quote 12. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, as per quote 23. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde, as noted in quote 27.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, crucial for efficiency, vary with vanadium content, featuring Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brnsted at high loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is key. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, reveals vanadyl sites as pivotal in the rate-determining step. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, maintaining overall kinetics. Enhanced activity is observed in vanadia sites on bulk surfaces compared to monomers on silica, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to further oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, impacts selectivity and combustion rates. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting ODH performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and ODH activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and affecting CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state is influenced by the feed's redox properties, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, with high Vv content leading to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affects catalytic performance and reaction mechanism understanding. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects, with oxygen balances showing the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source in both but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in the but-1-ene case.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Bifunctional catalysts feature metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane adsorption. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups, with protonation by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitating H/D exchange. Zn species enhance CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, promoting aromatization ability. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites promotes alkane dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption, though hydrogenation can reduce site reactivity. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and its molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule, with reactions needing one site being less sensitive to surface vanadia coverage than those requiring multiple sites. Interacting additives, like acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and conditions boosts yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, enhancing operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, and similar activation energies. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of the rate constant k1 and low ratios of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The highest alkene yield is obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. Persistent controversies in previous studies were due to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, along with temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, especially the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affect alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere and the presence of certain promoters enhance performance. A slight excess of phosphorus in the catalyst composition aids in avoiding V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, affecting the catalyst's behavior over time. These factors are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations varies with composition and structure. Polymolybdate species, dominant at high Mo loading, reduce dispersion and block zeolite channels, leading to higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, ammonia-treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in the selective oxidation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with selectivity close to 100% at moderate conversion rates. This highlights their potential for advancing organic synthesis through alkane transformations, influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, and the matrix's chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is a pivotal strategy for its conversion. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are revealed through studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through additions of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched for improved catalytic performance. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, with CH bond splitting attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct and indirect conversion routes yield various products, with oxidative coupling of methane studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits, while supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation remains a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, yielding high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing catalytic activity. The efficiency is influenced by the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, increasing from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 zeolite, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species post-calcination. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the catalyst, is scientifically and industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The activation mechanism is initiated by the weakness of methane's CH bond, caused by its interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The specific activity of isolated MoO42species in the new grafted Mo/HZSM-5 catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly above experimental findings. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkane conversion, notably methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, is a key research area. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatics production, especially BTX. Aromatization also yields light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred for managing zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation, with vanadium ions' isolation in a stable matrix and multifunctionality critical for design and mechanism understanding. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity significantly affect efficiency. Product stability and multifunctionality's limitations underscore process complexity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure. At low pressures, hydrogen evolution is favored, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with Mo and Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. Higher methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, following a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, underscoring the industrial value in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) can activate CH bonds, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) can hinder propene release due to excessive activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, polarizing and heterolytically dissociating it at moderate temperatures to form Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, focuses on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity of metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane to aromatics conversion, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, which are crucial for optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density influence catalytic behavior. At low densities, vanadia forms dispersed species on most supports except SiO2, where large V2O5 crystallites appear. Structures evolve to polyvanadates and V2O5 with higher density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains that balance activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites, independent of support when VOx structure is considered. Propene formation and secondary oxidation rates are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ up to the limit of anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation reactions, critical for C6 aromatic formation. These species enhance propane conversion, facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption, and promote deuterium incorporation, optimizing hydrogen management. Acting as 'portholes', they enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, and prevent cracking products, thus improving yields and selectivity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation to alkenes is the first aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl route, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as demonstrated with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Mo-HZSM-5 interactions are pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo species and zeolite acidity impacting catalytic activity. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperatures influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic outcomes. The role of Mo species during reactions is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers, crucial for high selectivities. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyzing H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than ethene. Catalysts display VO4 tetrahedra at low V loadings and VO6 octahedra at high loadings, with octahedral V5+ species showing higher activity but tetrahedral V5+ offering greater selectivity. Acid site nature, crucial for catalytic performance, evolves with vanadium loading.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form of Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    