Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, and optimal VOx domain size balances surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity by influencing parallel propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalysts like VCoAPO-18, with both acid and redox sites, achieve high ethylene selectivities. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density and domain size, with basic oxides affecting MoOx structure and electronic properties, impacting propylene combustion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed modify the catalyst's surface, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface are pivotal for understanding selectivity. The two-step reaction mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw and Vv states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio in the PVO system significantly impact performance. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The intercalation chemistry and stability of PVO phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are crucial for n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio influences selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Zn catalyzes recombinative desorption of H atoms as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for enhanced alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming in microporous environments for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhance ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination and decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen aid H2 desorption. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Reactivity properties are linked to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support affects the turnover frequency (TOF). Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, activate light alkanes into valuable products through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions under mild conditions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, notably active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimized conditions enhance yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Higher alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadates at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters significantly impact alkane activation, with isolated or extraframework oxygen atoms playing a role. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the reduction of V5+ are affected by preparation methods, impacting the exposure of the (001) plane. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, avoiding V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one with polymolybdate species that increase methane conversion but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, and another with monomeric Mo species that, despite lower methane conversion, enhance formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production. Higher Mo loadings lead to polymolybdate species predominance, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics under controlled conditions, avoiding deep oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhance activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification improves performance. Direct and indirect conversion routes are explored, with surface oxygen species facilitating CH bond splitting. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites show promise in methane aromatization, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity sequence.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages, transitioning to VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves high propene selectivity, with both species active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operation conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforming traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially vital due to extensive natural gas reserves. The mechanism initiates with the CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm MoO42species presence, while XRD spectra indicate no aggregates, ensuring high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. This innovative catalyst, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies highlight high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are reduced by considering a triplet state and complex O2 adsorption reactions. Support involvement is key for lowering barriers and enhancing efficiency. These insights into catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions are vital for industrial catalysis, particularly in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes. Selectivity is a challenge due to the formation of light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at high temperatures, as observed in gallium-containing samples.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, influencing alkane activation via two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. This modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are critical for selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet not solely sufficient. These factors are vital for industrial applications of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane via dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalyst. Propylene can oligomerize or further react to aromatics, influenced by reactant partial pressure: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, with metal incorporation enhancing catalytic activity. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, showcasing their efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition and structure, affecting CH bond activation and propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but optimal catalysts must balance this activation with efficient propene release. These catalysts' industrial value stems from their ability to convert alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct alkane transformation mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc facilitates heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are pivotal for hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is crucial for advancing methane conversion, focusing on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively, where pretreatment and temperature significantly impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalyst pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They catalyze H2 formation through recombinative desorption of H-atoms from dehydrogenation steps, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes', these species improve efficiency and selectivity by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing propene formation. This boosts yields of desired products and reduces by-products, underlining their industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, with computed activation energies highlighting the reaction's energetics. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. In W/HZSM-5 catalysts, tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal, altering acid sites and impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading, including Ru, Pt, and W, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are also significant. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly affect catalytic activity. The ongoing debate around methane activation modes and the formation of carbonaceous deposits hinder process development. Understanding the role of Mo species in methane dehydro-aromatization is crucial for advancing methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange and forming Gaalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings yield tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings produce octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting alkane transformation selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a pivotal step. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites playing a critical role in the rate-determining step. Second hydrogen abstraction can occur at VOSi bridging oxygen sites without affecting overall kinetics. Bulk vanadia surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Reactant redox properties alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is contingent on the redox potential of reactants and oxidation/reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio significantly affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and subsequent oxidation are critical steps, governed by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Excessive Vv content triggers over-oxidation. Selectivity for maleic anhydride aligns with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts exhibiting higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, plays a crucial role in the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and a P:V ratio of 1.1 are essential for selectivity and activity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Distinct hydrocarbons display varied reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, influencing product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, leading to aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species. This interaction enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites, leading to enhanced alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic efficiency. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition boosts dehydrogenation activity by increasing reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The monolayer's stability ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease and surface Br0nsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency hinging on their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their industrial importance stems from converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K). Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum value at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2). High alkene yields at reasonable residence times require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal cations in MFI zeolites, like gallium, zinc, and platinum, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions, and steam stabilizes these ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen atom pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, significantly increasing efficiency compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratios, with a high ratio stabilizing (VO)P207; additives like Zn2+, preventing overoxidation; and activation conditions, including low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one through conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and the other by impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. High Mo loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving high selectivity for phenol production from benzene. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies, highlighting the industrial significance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports enhance activity. Mo/HZSM-5 is a leading catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu improving performance. Zeolite micropore modification is a researched area. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. The activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High vanadium loadings enhance catalytic performance in this exothermic reaction. Studies at high temperatures reveal the importance of phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion for catalytic activity. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The incorporation of metals into HZSM-5 zeolites creates active species, enhancing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for catalytic efficiency. These catalysts are vital in petrochemical processes, including MTG, olefin production from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal stability and reducibility, significantly influence selectivity and conversion under mild conditions, optimizing energy consumption and product yields for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits superior activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The reaction mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Highly dispersed MoO42species, confirmed by XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra, are key to the catalyst's enhanced formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies indicate high barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are reduced in a triplet state. These barriers, though higher than those for supported vanadia, highlight the role of complex reactions and catalyst support in lowering them. Concerted O2 adsorption and water elimination can lower barriers, while propane adsorption requires vanadium oxide catalyst support, underscoring the significance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5. Processes focus on dehydrogenation to alkenes and aromatization to BTX components, with some light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, promoting hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, indicating a mechanism shift that differentiates kinetic parameters from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, highlighting its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Isolating vanadium ions in a stable matrix enhances efficiency. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient. These elements are essential for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen may participate in hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining the aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane-to-benzene conversion at high temperatures under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo and Zn into ZSM-5 boosts catalytic activity and methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. CH bond activation in propane dehydrogenation can occur via radical or oxo-insertion pathways at terminal O sites, and only oxo-insertion at bridging O sites. Propene production is favored at bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) can hinder propene release due to its overactivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts distinctly influence alkane transformations. Zinc enhances ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures for heterolytic dissociation, yielding Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation producing ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, critical for industrial alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, particularly FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane to aromatics conversion, is pivotal for alkane transformations. Efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and 60-70% BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, show enhanced aromatization activity, particularly for propane. Reduced catalysts perform similarly to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed, higher-energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects. To maximize aromatics yield, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, essential for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', enhancing propene production and minimizing cracking products, thus improving selectivity and efficiency. These enhancements underscore the industrial value of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism. Activation energies for key steps highlight the process efficiency. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high initial activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformations. Their efficiency is enhanced by optimized reaction conditions and catalyst modifications. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite supports affects aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Certain metals boost reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature also influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Introducing Mo species and a second metal modifies zeolite acid sites. Methane activation modes are debated, with heavy carbon deposits hindering reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities in oxidative dehydrogenation, best at around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica playing a key role. The first hydrogen abstraction in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit increased activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than as supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with higher V2O5 loading, achieving optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene, and substituting N2O for O2 leads to a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but their performance is lower than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting propylene combustion, thus increasing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis follows a two-step mechanism: oxidative dehydrogenation to butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system forms various V(IV) and V(V) phases, with preparation conditions affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is key, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing activity. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the P:V ratio, oxidation state, and PVO structure. Oxygen balances in but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation reveal the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source, highlighting differences in hydrocarbon reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at acid sites, with Zn or Ga catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enable heterolytic CH cleavage, vital for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination aid H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. In situ Raman studies reveal insights into the behavior of surface vanadia species during reactions, including the role of the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the acidic characteristics of the overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. The reactivity is associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the bridging V-O-support bond, which is critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule, and interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the TOF and selectivity of reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors influencing efficiency. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities, underscoring their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit higher propene formation rates than ethene, with similar activation energies. Selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation is enhanced at low surface densities, favoring isolated monovanadate species. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities, requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios for high alkene yields. Optimal conditions include high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. Increasing surface densities lead to the formation of poly-vanadates and three-dimensional structures, with alkene selectivity increasing with reaction temperature and decreasing with vanadia surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, driving aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, activate alkanes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen can alter performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde is influenced by molybdenum species. Polymolybdate species, dominant at higher loadings, enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity by blocking zeolite channels. Conversely, monomeric species in treated catalysts yield higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, notably in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in enhancing catalyst efficiency, suggesting progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied for catalyst improvement. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and vanadium loadings, are critical in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. This exothermic reaction reaches 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species boosts propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals into HZSM-5 zeolites creates active species, boosting acidity and catalytic activity. The acidity ratio and Lewis site strength vary among HZSM-5, Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, with Al, Ga, Zn, and Fe in descending order of Lewis site strength. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, affect active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, enabling reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst's Mo(VI) surface species weaken the CH bond, facilitating methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Isolated MoO42species in the grafted catalyst significantly boost formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions compared to impregnated catalysts. The reaction mechanism avoids aggregated MoO3, resulting in highly dispersed oxo species. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity. The new catalyst's design optimizes properties for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, exceeding experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Support for vanadium oxide catalysts is crucial, as it enhances efficiency by lowering adsorption barriers, highlighting the role of support in catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their stability at high temperatures, critical for aromatization reactions, despite not achieving complete selectivity to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, which favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role as the preferred element and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhance selective oxidation. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms, supporting product stability and C-H bond activation. Acidity and basicity significantly impact efficiency. These factors collectively contribute to the industrial significance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane via dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 boosts methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. Metal cations significantly enhance catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, achieving high selectivity and stability in converting methane to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's overactivity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance in CH bond activation and propene release for an efficient catalyst. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc facilitates heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, enhancing ethane polarizability, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, crucial for dehydrogenation, whereas gallium produces gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, affecting efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are vital for selective alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is crucial for enhancing methane conversion efficiency and selectivity. Factors like pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition influence performance. FePO4 is effective for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite facilitates methane-to-aromatics conversion, highlighting specific catalysts' roles in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with cracking as a concurrent reaction. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are similar for both catalysts, indicating comparable reaction kinetics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization activity and selectivity in alkane transformations. Reduced gallium, limited by anionic framework sites, enhances propane aromatization similarly to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts generate optimal, dispersed Ga3+, which is more active and selective for aromatics production than the reduced form. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, impacting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, essential for dihydrogen formation, and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species improve efficiency and selectivity by enhancing H-atom desorption. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels increases aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, leading to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation. This selective H-atom removal is pivotal for extracting valuable H2 from light alkanes, optimizing industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane dehydrogenation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the initial step in aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier, making it less favorable. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Zeolite structure, acidity, and Mo species' properties are critical for catalytic performance. Metal loading, notably Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhances reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo's interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo and second metal addition alter reaction pathways. Methane activation modes are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering understanding and process development. Mo species' role during reaction is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts display VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species achieving higher selectivity for oxydehydrogenation. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, significantly influence selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also participating without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites in bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but lowers methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by N2O, which promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst performance is support-dependent, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, though less active than vanadia-based ones, display heightened reactivity with higher Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, influencing oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, affecting catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its various crystalline phases, is influenced by preparation variables, P:V ratio, and oxidation states. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. Surface oxygen concentrations influence the mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that aid H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by the catalyst's Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes enhancing activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination aids H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks site reduction. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments show. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, plays a critical role. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in environments with hydrogen and carbon monoxide, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments, with in situ Raman spectroscopy revealing insights into their behavior. The stability of V(5) surface vanadia species on silica supports, attributed to the presence of isolated species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The specific oxide support influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species minimally. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds do, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, especially basic ones, can retard surface vanadia reduction and decrease TOFs, while acidic additives can have diverse effects on selectivity. The unique properties of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes to be converted into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods address deactivation, enhancing operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation reveal that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies (Quote 2). High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions (<800 K) (Quote 5). Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2) (Quote 13). The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K) (Quote 39).", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations. Cationic clusters, especially when involving extraframework oxygen atoms, enhance alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, significantly increasing efficiency compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction are critical, varying with preparation techniques. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, preventing oxidation in reactants and air. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface phosphorus enrichment preventing overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, stabilizing V4+. Catalysts with a slight phosphorus excess balance reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, were prepared via conventional impregnation and ammonia washing, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. Higher molybdenum loadings (>1.3 wt.%) led to dispersion issues and channel blockage. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties, pointing to promising organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, Pt, and PtCrO3, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between transition metal components and zeolite supports, enhancing the conversion of methane to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics. Catalyst modification, particularly in zeolite micropores, significantly improves activity and stability. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu augment catalyst performance. Mo exhibits the highest activity for methane aromatization, followed by W, Fe, V, and Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species initiates the transformation. Direct conversion routes for methanol and formaldehyde are also explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic process, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites boosts acidity and catalytic activity, with the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio and Lewis site strength increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, and Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, respectively. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and enhanced product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalysts enhance methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, crucial for converting abundant natural gas reserves into methanol and formaldehyde. This new catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The mechanism involves the interaction of methane with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond, and the presence of isolated MoO42species. Methanol and formaldehyde are key components for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods, making this process industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly above reactants, but lower than experimental values for supported vanadia due to complex reactions like O2 adsorption. A support is crucial for the vanadium oxide catalyst to reduce barriers for propane adsorption, highlighting factors influencing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, such as propane and butane, are converted to aromatics like BTX through catalytic processes using ZSM-5 catalysts. During aromatization, hydrogen is released as dihydrogen, improving BTX selectivity. Gallium-containing ZSM-5 catalysts are favored over zinc due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. Processes like Oleflex and Cyclar convert light gases to aromatics, with light alkenes forming as intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolites, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, influencing alkane activation and transformation, particularly in regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, excel in alkane transformations, particularly selective oxidation (Quote 1). The stability of vanadium ions in an inert matrix (Quote 2) and multifunctionality (Quote 4) are critical for efficiency, aiding in catalyst design (Quote 5A) and understanding reaction mechanisms (Quote 5B). However, multifunctionality alone is not sufficient (Quote 5C). The type of C-H bond activation (Quote 8) and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) also significantly impact process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's role varies with pressure. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites, which is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, showcasing high activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield, particularly as methane pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. These catalysts' performance in alkane transformations, specifically dehydrogenation and aromatization, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the importance of balancing CH bond activation and propene release for an efficient catalyst, as terminal O sites are too active for propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, facilitating heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton generation. This difference in alkane activation directly influences hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation selectivity and efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, particularly FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. FePO4 aids in CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 facilitates methane conversion to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports like Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2 evolves with vanadium surface density, forming dispersed species below 7 VOx/nm2 on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, and large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures transition from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, whereas ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reducing gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites (Quote 2). Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures (Quote 3). For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones (Quote 4). Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen (Quote 6). Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates (Quote 11), affecting the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio, a key indicator of relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating hydrogen disposal as dihydrogen (H2). They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing propene formation. This improves selectivity and yields of desired products, reducing by-product formation. Recombinative desorption is crucial for efficient H2 extraction from light alkanes in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These catalysts enhance selectivity for aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Converting methane to valuable fuels via direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is challenging yet promising. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo introduction changing acid sites. Methane activation modes are debated, and heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The Mo species' role in the reaction pathway is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, crucial for alkane transformations, vary with vanadium loading, affecting both selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are crucial for alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step, as seen in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction predominantly occurs on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface, indicating the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature is critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but decrease methanol selectivity, with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration drops at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's efficiency and selectivity are influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which modify the surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The change in vanadium's valence state is governed by the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio significantly impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by the amount of Vv. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with the P:V ratio determining selectivity and activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is necessary for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentration, suggesting a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface differ, with Vv phosphate acting as the oxygen source in both cases, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating alkane CH bond breakage. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores adsorb alkanes, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form on high Zn content zeolites, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. The mechanism involves methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting metal-based catalysts' industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structures have been extensively studied. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives affect all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures. Catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, maximize alkene production. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities improve alkene selectivity. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly impact reaction rates and selectivity. The stabilization energy for ethoxide species is higher relative to isopropoxide, affecting propene formation rates. These insights underscore the intricate relationship between vanadia structure, surface density, and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, activate alkanes. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, additives, and low-temperature treatment. The preparation method affects (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction kinetics. A P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Additives, like Zn2+, prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' structure impacts alkane transformation efficiency. Polymolybdate species, predominant at high Mo loading, decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels, enhancing methane conversion but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, well-dispersed monomeric species, achieved through aqueous impregnation and ammonia washing, lower methane conversion yet increase formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts for oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, highlighting its potential in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy in methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports influence active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use leads to deep methane oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts under non-oxidative conditions. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. This reaction is exothermic, with optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. Reaction conditions, including temperature and atmosphere, influence active species and catalytic performance. Strong Lewis acid sites and regenerated Brnsted acid sites affect selectivity and conversion, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation is critical for converting abundant natural gas reserves into methanol or formaldehyde. Methane activation starts with the CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. The catalyst's high dispersion of molybdenum(VI) species, achieved by grafting without water, boosts formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The novel catalyst design, with its specific activity for isolated MoO42species, significantly enhances methane conversion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, exceeding experimental observations. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers highlight the role of support for vanadium oxide catalysts, crucial for enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes to methanol, higher hydrocarbons, and aromatics, notably BTX, through processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane and butane transformation to alkenes and aromatics presents selectivity issues, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, which change the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored for selective alkane oxidation, performs optimally when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though not solely sufficient. These factors are essential for industrial significance, enhancing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant pressure: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. This mechanism shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly boosts methane activation and benzene yield, which rises with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane follow a carbenium ion mechanism, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Propane's CH bond activation by V2O5(001) surfaces supports both radical and oxo-insertion pathways, with the latter being more favorable for propene production. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts distinctly influence alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts polarize ethane at room temperature, facilitating heterolytic dissociation and forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. Gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are key in CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction conditions, active metal state, and feed composition, essential for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with the dispersion and oxidation state affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for propene and C6 aromatic production. These metals act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom desorption and forming dihydrogen (H2), enhancing selectivity and efficiency. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, making them industrially significant for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zn-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored with lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, 20.5 kcal mol-1), and less favorable carbenium activation with a high barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity in aromatization processes, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivity (90%) at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite modify acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity for methane dehydro-aromatization. Metals such as Ru and Pt improve reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are critical. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, significantly affect catalytic performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity of n-butane and ethane, peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms for selectivity. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at lower loadings favor oxydehydrogenation selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species at higher loadings boost activity. Acid site nature and number, crucial for alkane transformation, vary with vanadium loading. At lower loadings, isolated or associated tetrahedral/octahedral V5+ species are observed, transitioning to V2O5 crystallites at about 60% of theoretical monolayer coverage.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction initially at OVV sites, followed by VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is notably faster on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content enhances methane conversion, whereas the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is seen with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, and extended contact time further reduces selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, featuring spherulitic aggregates and Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, is crucial for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type affects V5+ reduction extent and reactivity, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher activity than V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported vanadia is more selective than alumina or titania-supported catalysts, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size impacting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and affecting CH bond activation steps. Basic dopants enhance propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. A two-step mechanism is proposed for converting alkanes to maleic anhydride, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. The P:V ratio significantly affects catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride while decreasing specific activity. Understanding the dynamics of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface modifications and catalytic behavior is crucial for optimizing selectivity-controlling properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by zeolite Brnsted acid sites, promoting aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy is instrumental in elucidating structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Extraframework gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit reactivity and stability influenced by coordination environment. Binuclear gallium-oxo species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, notably active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods address deactivation, enhancing operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Optimal conditions for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation include low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures, leading to high alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations. Cationic clusters activate alkanes, with isolated cations or extraframework oxygen atoms playing a role. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly influence methane to formaldehyde conversion in alkane transformations. Two preparation methods were tested: conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and impregnation followed by ammonia washing, producing a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, particularly in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. This highlights the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a pivotal strategy for methane conversion. Synergies between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are revealed through studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, operates at temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is associated with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their performance is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The acidity and catalytic activity increase in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, critical for alkane transformation. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's conversion into methanol and formaldehyde, key industrial compounds, is significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation starts with CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This is confirmed by UV spectra and XPS analysis, indicating high dispersion. The grafting method avoids water, yielding highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aqueous impregnation which forms MoO3 aggregates. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies highlight high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, critical for industrial catalysis. Barriers are notably higher than for supported vanadia, suggesting the importance of catalyst structure. Adsorption barrier reduction for propane requires vanadium oxide support, emphasizing the role of catalyst conditions in enhancing efficiency for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons via catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is crucial in processes like Oleflex, converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, improving BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations by altering activation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, facilitating regioselective H/D exchange in propane through two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification boosts regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is essential. Product stability, multifunctionality, and C-H bond activation enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's not sufficient alone. Acidity and basicity also significantly impact the process. These factors are pivotal for the industrial success of alkane transformation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by adsorbing it over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes further reactions over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant pressures influence efficiency, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing their potential in natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. This highlights the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, supported by a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) highlight that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, but the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, crucial for converting alkanes into olefins to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, leading to Brnsted acid protons upon dissociation. In contrast, gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments that coordinate with cationic gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation mechanisms directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, and are critical for industrial alkane conversion applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, all of which are pivotal for industrial significance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the mechanisms and overall efficiency of alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's efficiency is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes as V2O5 on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, forming earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to enhanced BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, as reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influencing alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. Pretreatments significantly impact ethane dehydrogenation performance, with the most active catalyst for aromatics production not featuring reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is governed by catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane dehydrocyclodimerization to C6 aromatics is rate-limited by dehydrogenation steps. Ga and Zn species, acting as 'portholes', boost propane conversion by facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, essential for H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover, and reduce cracking turnover on H-ZSM5. By removing H-atoms from acid sites, Ga and Zn species prevent cracking, enhancing propene formation and selectivity. This selective H-atom removal is key to efficient H2 extraction from light alkanes, a significant industrial benefit.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies for key steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards small alkanes' aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is a studied alternative. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as shown by MoO3/SiO2 achieving over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde exhibit selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite modify acid sites, affecting methane dehydro-aromatization. Metals such as Ru, Pt, and W enhance catalyst reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have an opposing effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures, along with pre-treatments and reaction conditions, significantly influence catalytic performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge for reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, requiring silica support for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act as multifunctional catalysts, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, similar to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature is critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures but decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) incorporated into framework sites, affects reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    