Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is also affected by the support type, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives like alkali and alkaline earth metals decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at specific surface densities. The size of MoOx domains influences Mo O strength, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali dopants modify MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, influencing selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's complexity, with various crystalline phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. The P:V ratio affects crystallinity and defect structure, impacting catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, where metal species dehydrogenate alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn-modified zeolites effectively enhance alkane conversion to aromatics, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear gallium complexes forming, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination promotes H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can reduce site reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface vanadia sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which enhance oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing composition and conditions boosts efficiency, yielding higher product selectivities. Their industrial value lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending catalyst life and application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature and similar activation energies. Optimal alkene yield is achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by the local structure of supported vanadia domains. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impact reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is pivotal for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and organic medium precursors enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, display efficiency variance linked to composition and structure. Two series were examined: one with conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, the latter dominant at high Mo loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts' higher selectivity despite lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion rates. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant used, offering promising technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics, a key strategy for its conversion. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation is critical, leading to efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched to improve catalyst performance. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component boosts activity. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties are influenced by preparation method, support type, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn increase the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization. Their strength, density of acid sites, metal stability, and reducibility are critical for selectivity and conversion, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably MoO2(acac)2 grafted onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation, improving methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, is crucial for activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and XRD confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence and high dispersion, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on zeolite surfaces contribute to CO selectivity, affecting the efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, notably higher than for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, or the involvement of a support, could lower these barriers, improving alkane transformation efficiency in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Aromatization yields light alkenes alongside BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 releasing dihydrogen, boosting BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, favoring gallium due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms involve propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Zn modification leads to methyl group regioselectivity. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element in selective oxidation [1] and the isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix [2] are essential. Product stability [3], multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation [5]-[6], C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9] significantly impact efficiency. While multifunctionality is important, it's not solely sufficient [7]. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups over Zn oxide species, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and benzene yield, facilitated by a carbenium ion mechanism. Reaction conditions, like temperature and methane partial pressure, impact process efficiency, highlighting the industrial value of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging O atoms activate the CH bond, but propene production is favored at the bridging O site due to weaker propoxide binding. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms: Zn2+ and O sites induce strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while Ga1+ weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc promotes Brnsted acid proton formation, whereas gallium yields dihydride species, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are significant for industrial alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, catalyst efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, exemplify how these factors impact the processes, highlighting the need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia appears as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, with support interactions determining VOx structures present at a given surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-H's radical-chain reaction initiation is speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate detectable radical species. Different aromatization mechanisms explain the behavior contrast between the catalysts. ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen during aromatization, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within zeolite channels, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, boost alkane transformations by accelerating chemical conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and act as 'portholes' for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This enhances aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Ga and Zn increase propene formation by selectively removing H-atoms, minimizing by-products. The recombinative desorption of H-atoms contributes to high H2 selectivity, vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, facilitate alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The initial aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with zinc cations assisting in the rupture of the ethane CH bond. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to liquid fuels, particularly through direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde, is a promising yet challenging route. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Research on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen reveals formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, highlighting the industrial significance of these factors in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is critical, impacting acid sites and catalytic activity (Quote 3). Metal loading, particularly of Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhances reactivity and stability (Quote 4). Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature also affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic efficiency. The real status of Mo species during reactions is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization reactions. M-zeolites, containing Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, while selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity when part of the bulk surface, enhancing the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen) significantly affect methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. When Fe-HZSM-5 is used, methane oxidation to methanol and carbon dioxide proceeds at the same rate, with methanol slowly oxidizing to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide. Using Fe-NaZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also increases the rapid oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "In alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains for optimal reactant accessibility and surface species activity. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Catalysts supported on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active site isolation is critical for efficient catalysts, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with higher Mo surface density, reaching a peak at 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting increased surface Mo species reactivity. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance by inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and increasing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, affected by feed redox properties, determines product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, and temperature. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalysts with variable V(IV)/V(V) ratios show optimal performance at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio affects selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface play a critical role in controlling selectivity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's interconversion of V(IV) and V(V) phases influences catalytic performance. The active phase, vanadyl pyrophosphate, is crucial for n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Oxygen balances in C4 hydrocarbon oxidation reveal the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source, highlighting differences in reactivity and interaction between alkenes and alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species facilitating dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites driving olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and inhibiting hydrogen transfer, resulting in ethane and methane. Further dehydrocyclization of olefins yields aromatics. Zn boosts H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and reducing activation energies. Zn species ease CH bond dynamics, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, promoting alkane conversion to aromatics on Zn-modified zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces, studied through spectroscopy and theory, leads to enhanced understanding. Extraframework gallium-oxo species in high-silica zeolites exhibit significant reactivity for ethane dehydrogenation, facilitated by decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as confirmed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring the longevity of industrial catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is related to their dehydrated state, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is driven by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes to be converted into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities. Innovative regeneration methods combat deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Spectroscopic results show distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, evolving into poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites at higher densities. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed for the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide to form GaO+ ions, are pivotal. Steam stabilizes GaO+, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation methods affect morphology, reducibility, and reoxidizability. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, avoiding V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, were studied in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading causing decreased dispersion and channel blocking; the other, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts' lower conversion and higher selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the efficiency of zeolite catalysts in organic synthesis, suggesting new technologies for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity further enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal ions' influence on catalysts has been investigated, with activity following Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is efficient for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been examined, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on surfaces have catalytic properties influenced by preparation, support, promotors, and environment. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Active species, including (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, are formed in HZSM-5 by metals Ga, Fe, and Zn, boosting acidity and catalytic activity. The Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio, crucial for alkane transformations, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation, targeting the conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde, is industrially significant due to vast natural gas reserves. The mechanism initiates with the weakening of methane's CH bond through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafting process, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. The barriers are higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia, indicating the need for complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, or support involvement to reduce other barriers, such as propane adsorption, to enhance efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane conversion to aromatics and alkenes, central to processes like Oleflex, employs catalysts such as ZSM-5 for light gas aromatization, especially BTX. Selectivity is partial, with light alkenes also forming. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, favoring gallium to mitigate zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, facilitated by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification introduces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating a unique mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix (Quotes [1] and [2]) enhance efficiency. Product stability (Quote [3]), multifunctionality (Quotes [4] and [5]), and C-H bond activation (Quote [8]) are pivotal factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding (Quotes [5] and [6]), though not solely sufficient (Quote [7]). Acidity and basicity (Quote [9]) also significantly impact these processes. These elements collectively influence the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production over Zn sites. Propylene can oligomerize, and dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can further aromatize. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield, especially at higher methane partial pressures. Metal cation addition enhances catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts for selective and stable methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of bridging O sites in easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An optimal catalyst balances CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting hydrocarbon conversions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, enabling strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect dehydrogenation reactions, influencing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Factors such as pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition significantly impact efficiency and selectivity. Specific catalysts, including FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate the importance of these factors in optimizing industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is shaped by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn, with secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contributing to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed Ga3+ form, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affect the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio. Pretreatments influence catalyst performance, and small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium can enhance aromatics yields. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, and enabling deuterium incorporation. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. They increase propene formation and aromatic yields while reducing by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by improving reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation barriers. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is their dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor of the alkyl group, facilitating the mechanism. The alternative carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a significantly higher activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, vital for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with Banares et al. achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially affect alkane transformations. Their efficiency is enhanced by optimized composition and reaction conditions. The channel structure of HZSM-5 and Mo species' interaction are pivotal for catalytic performance. Loading specific metals like Ru and Pt boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature are influential. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact activity. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over HZSM-5 is essential for understanding the reaction mechanism. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting catalytic behavior. Methane activation's mechanism remains a topic of debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding. The real status of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene via sequential H-abstraction on adjacent VO sites. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics through multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral species but greater selectivity from tetrahedral ones. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, catalyzing propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction initially occurs at OVV sites, with a subsequent step possibly at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content in Fe-ZSM-5 boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical parameters: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity, and prolonged contact time decreases methanol concentration due to further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, which is crucial for the catalyst's efficiency. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in oxidative dehydrogenation rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate sizes for optimal surface VOx species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation steps, thus increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves controlled oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, dependent on the rate of Vw reduction and the amount of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Preparation procedures determine catalyst redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, significantly affects the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites, leading to alkane dehydrogenation and the formation of aromatics. This demonstrates Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their structure-activity relationships, influenced by composition and reaction conditions, are critical for efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates these relationships, enhancing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by net pH and oxide support properties, are pivotal for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be assessed using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, impacting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives influence selectivity in a reaction-specific manner.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. Optimizing these factors boosts yield and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods extend their operational life, enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation show that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is seen in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, and propene formation is eight times faster than ethene at 663 K. Alkene selectivity increases with temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters' nature, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods affecting crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios stabilizing (VO)P207, and additives preventing overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, critical for selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo species and loading. Two series were tested: one with tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, the other with well-dispersed monomeric species after ammonia washing. Polymolybdates, predominant at high Mo loadings, enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the high-selectivity conversion of benzene to phenol, showcasing the influence of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties on catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane to higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and environment, vary with vanadium loadings: isolated/polymerized VO4 at lower coverages, VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K in concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals introduced into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation boost catalytic activity, making these catalysts significant in industrial processes such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, which reduces energy consumption and increases product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is pivotal for converting vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, into methanol or formaldehyde, key components for liquid fuels and organic synthesis. The activation mechanism involves weakening methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Efficiency is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase, with grafting yielding highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Spectral analysis confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating the catalyst's unique structure and oxidation state. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with higher surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leading to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, notably higher than for supported vanadia. Incorporating complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers suggest the necessity of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, emphasizing the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5 in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. Conversion isn't fully selective, with alkenes forming alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane transformations via two mechanisms: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Zeolite modification with Zn induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored for selective alkane oxidation, requires isolation in a quasi-inert matrix for efficiency. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and explaining reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone. Product stability, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity also significantly impact efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, facilitating dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization and cyclization over acidic sites, with Zn enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts convert light alkanes to aromatics, critical petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 boosts methane activation and benzene yield, which rises with methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) show similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging O atoms, favoring propene production at bridging O due to weaker binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc facilitates heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, while gallium forms gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. These catalysts are crucial for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition, all of which are critical to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The primary mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, whereas ZSM-5-Zn maintains quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by boosting chemical conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing propene formation. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels accelerates aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, underscoring their industrial significance by optimizing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, with two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The zinc cation facilitates alkyl group rupture, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and metal loading significantly affect catalyst behavior and efficiency. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation exhibit formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are essential. The Mo-zeolite interaction and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are critical for catalytic performance (Quote 3). Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity (Quote 6). Understanding the role of Mo species in methane dehydro-aromatization and the alteration of zeolite acid sites is central to reaction pathway comprehension (Quote 11). Methane activation's mode remains debated, with carbonaceous deposits posing a major challenge. The real status of Mo species during reactions is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at optimal temperatures around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica, as the ideal support, enhances selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, involving complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species dominate, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, prevalent at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites' nature and number also vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is pivotal. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites central in the rate-determining step. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, significantly impacting propene formation rates. Vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity when integrated into the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, impact alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but diminishes methanol selectivity. The catalyst with the lowest iron content achieves the highest selectivity for methane to methanol oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, correlating with optimal selectivity to olefins. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their redox properties, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is influenced by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio significantly affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. Surface oxygen concentration influences the mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion, supporting a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, as evidenced by the oxidation of but-l-ene and n-butane to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for subsequent aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by providing a dehydrogenation step. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, enhancing alkane conversion towards aromatic molecules.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformation efficiency through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined space reactivity is studied, developing catalysis structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit reactivity governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Oligomerization forms multinuclear oxygenated gallium, driving reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation, with H2 desorption promoted by decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, as catalytic experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by surface coverage, oxidation state, and the nature of the oxide support, significantly impact efficiency. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports. The stability of V(5) species on silica may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with Lewis acid sites present on oxide supports and both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on unsupported V2O5. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds do, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly affect the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing these catalysts and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods further extend their operational life and broaden their application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Selectivity for ethane is independent of surface density, while for propane, it increases slightly with density. High temperatures and isolated monovanadate species maximize alkene yields, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is seen in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, around 115 ± 20 kJ/mol. Propene formation is faster, suggesting higher stabilization energy for ethoxide species. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5 significantly boost efficiency, with nitrous oxide oxidation forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam. Water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing reaction energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation, olefin desorption, and hydrogen recombination, underscoring the role of extraframework oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, impacting morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, with morphology affecting oxidizability. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. A slight phosphorus excess (P/V=1.05) optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, were assessed in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by ammonia washing, resulting in a well-dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show specificity for formaldehyde production, despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, such as the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in the efficiency of alkane transformations, suggesting potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in alkane transformations, enabling methane aromatization to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports influence reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting research into oxygen-free processes to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Catalysts modified with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu exhibit enhanced activity or stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane, forming benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by loadings, exhibit isolated/polymerized VO4 at lower and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction reaching 873 K, benefits from high vanadium loadings. High propene selectivity correlates with dispersed isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5, which have low activity. AlVO4's portion increases with vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5, form active species enhancing catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for alkane conversion, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization. Acid site strength, metal stability, and reducibility under mild conditions improve selectivity and conversion, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are key in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, featuring highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to vast natural gas reserves. Methane activation starts with the CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide supported phase. The grafting process, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species, crucial for the catalyst's specific activity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm these species' presence, while XRD spectra show high dispersion without MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influence CO selectivity, and high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leads to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide highlight high energy barriers, which are significantly reduced by considering complex reactions and the catalyst's support. The support's role in lowering propane adsorption barriers is critical for enhancing efficiency, underscoring its importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including propane and butane, are converted to aromatics, notably BTX, using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for managing zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Conversion isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation and transformation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal from propane. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are critical metal-based catalysts. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation (Quote 1) and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix (Quote 2) are pivotal. Product stability (Quote 3), multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation (Quotes 5-7), C-H bond activation (Quote 8), and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) significantly impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalyst. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption favors propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, with low pressures favoring hydrogen evolution and high pressures hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, underlining a carbenium ion mechanism for activation. These catalysts' efficiency and selectivity are crucial for industrial alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption by acid-base pairs, whereas gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species, significantly impacting hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity in processes such as methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition, crucial for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These findings reveal how metal-based catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, favoring aromatization. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer, producing paraffins. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 being as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating hydrogen disposal as dihydrogen (H2). They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and enhancing propene formation. This improves yields of desired products and reduces by-product formation, crucial for industrial significance by optimizing reaction rates and selectivities. Ga and Zn species catalyze recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, aiding in selective H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, starting the mechanism with ethane CH bond rupture. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, notably Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, and reaction conditions critically affect alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Select metal loadings, including Ru, Pt, and W, enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P diminish these properties. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures, along with pre-treatments and reaction conditions, significantly influence catalytic performance. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and the real status of Mo species during reactions is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge to reaction understanding and process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation under optimal conditions around 500 C. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive for H-abstraction. Silica is optimal for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, while selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, offer higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance catalytic activity. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects selectivity and activity, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a key step, with monomeric vanadium oxide on silica playing a role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites, followed by the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the Si/Fe ratio and catalyst form. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is seen with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9, 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11, 12). The speed of methanol production and oxidation varies with the catalyst form (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst performance is affected by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity in ethane ODH is influenced by the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting ODH performance; alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density and domain size impacting ODH rates and activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, thus increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are crucial. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods dictate redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride requires high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. C4 alkenes and alkanes interact differently with the catalyst surface, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. This enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating dehydrogenation and aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Their structure-activity relationships, influenced by composition and reaction conditions, are pivotal for catalytic efficiency. Zeolites' confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, which depends on the surface point of zero charge of the oxide support and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is influenced by the predominant species, the extent of reduction, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly affect the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the same thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species are formed. The molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species is unaffected by the long-range order of the oxide substrate. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, and the number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, and acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their effect appears to be reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being key factors. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into more valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impact rates and selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at high temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5 are activated by nitrous oxide, forming reactive gallyl ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, varies with composition and structure. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, highlighting their industrial significance in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with activity enhancements achieved through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites is effective, though coke formation is a concern. The sequence of metal activity is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions, are pivotal in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and concentrated feeds, achieving maximum temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is observed with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4, impacting the efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5 cavities, form active species enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for alkane conversion, increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This method yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental values for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like concerted oxygen adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. The support's role in reducing barriers, such as for propane adsorption, underscores the significance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency, vital for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane conversion to aromatics and alkenes, facilitated by ZSM-5 catalysts in processes like Oleflex and Cyclar, is a key industrial application. Zinc in ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Gallium or gallium-zinc ZSM-5 is preferred over zinc alone due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, are critical for upgrading light gases to higher-value products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation/deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts and zeolites are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's preference for selective oxidation and its ion isolation in a stable matrix enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not solely sufficient. The type of C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity are also pivotal. These factors significantly contribute to industrial processes by boosting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure. At low pressures, hydrogen evolution is favored, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites are key in alkane transformations, showing high activity and selectivity for methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation, and benzene yield rises with increased methane partial pressure, following a carbenium ion mechanism. These catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact efficiency, making them industrially vital for natural gas utilization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The ideal catalyst balances CH bond activation and propene release, critical for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins. This process addresses the global demand for olefins, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid proton formation, unlike gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species. These differences directly influence hydrocarbon conversions in dehydrogenation processes, affecting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, focuses on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate the impact of pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition on efficiency and selectivity. These factors are pivotal for optimizing catalytic performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are shaped by support type and vanadium surface density. At lower densities, vanadia is dispersed on most supports except SiO2, where it forms V2O5 crystallites. Surface structures progress from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density due to reduced monovanadate species. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support when VOx structure is considered, with similar rates on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are support-independent, highlighting the role of catalyst composition, structure, and conditions in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn channels, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 enabling gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+, enhancing ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments impact ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance. Achieving high aromatics yields often requires adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking and enhancing propene formation. This improves aromatization efficiency and selectivity while reducing cracking turnover rates, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Two distinct routes for ethane activation have been identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The former is more favorable due to lower activation barriers. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations act as acceptors of the alkyl group, facilitating the mechanism. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These insights are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, offers a promising alternative. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, as evidenced by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity correlate with metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5, formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Zeolite structure and acidity, particularly HZSM-5 with Mo species, are critical for catalytic performance. Metals such as Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V and Li have contrary effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact catalyst efficiency. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo introduction altering acid sites and influencing catalytic behavior. Methane activation modes remain a topic of debate, with heavy carbonaceous deposits posing challenges to reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, optimized for selectivity and avoiding combustion. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves terminal oxo species of VV surface sites, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation reactions and direct aromatization of methane. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral but greater selectivity from tetrahedral V5+ species. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step, similar to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, significantly enhancing propene formation rates over isopropyl alcohol.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity. Reaction conditions critically affect the balance between methanol production and its further oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit higher activity with increased V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst performance depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported catalysts are more selective than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, dictates product formation. Vanadium's valence state is determined by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation, while selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system forms various V(IV) and V(V) phases, influenced by synthesis variables. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, favoring olefin formation and inhibiting hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, yielding ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions produce aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide sites inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites, forming Zn-alkyl species that accelerate conversion to aromatics. Zn and acid sites synergistically enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and subsequent aromatization steps.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. Zeolites' confined spaces affect reactivity, guided by spectroscopy and theory. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium in high-silica zeolites is key for activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination aids H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks site reduction. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as in Ga+/ZSM-5 experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the catalyst's performance. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports minimally influence the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, with effects varying by reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing key roles. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is achieved with low surface density catalysts at high temperatures. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide boosts activity, forming reactive GaO+ ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5 over HZSM-5. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen-containing atmospheres, along with certain additives, enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, crucial for selective paraffin activation in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformations, as demonstrated in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two preparation methods were compared: conventional impregnation led to monomeric Mo(VI) and polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia treatment resulted in well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had lower conversion but higher selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are key in alkane transformations, achieving high selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and the oxidant dinitrogen monoxide, highlighting potential for advanced organic synthesis technologies through selective oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Surface oxygen species interact with CH4, facilitating CH bond splitting. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, aiming to avoid CO and CO2 by producing higher hydrocarbons without oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species' structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation method, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn, introduced into HZSM-5, increase acidity and catalytic activity, with the acidity ratio rising in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility are critical for selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts activity in methane partial oxidation (MPO) over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Preparation involves washing, drying, and calcining to yield [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS confirms highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, and XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts correlates with residual acid sites. The new catalyst's structure and composition offer potential for efficient catalysis, crucial for converting methane to methanol and formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, due to natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies indicate high barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which may be reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption. Catalyst support is crucial for vanadium oxide, highlighting the role of structure and conditions in enhancing efficiency for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, central to processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, employs ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, like Zn/H-MFI zeolite, significantly impact efficiency and mechanisms. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal and altering the mechanism of alkane activation. Two key mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange in propane are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. The unique mechanism for propane on Zn/H-MFI is evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are crucial for selective alkane oxidation. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient. These elements are pivotal to the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 zeolites are key in alkane transformations, notably converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. The addition of Mo or Zn boosts catalytic activity and selectivity, with benzene yield rising as methane partial pressure increases. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for desired chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that bridging lattice O atoms facilitate easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding, essential for an effective catalyst balancing CH bond activation and propene release. The industrial significance lies in converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Zinc facilitates strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium, in contrast, exhibits weak ethane adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species. These distinct mechanisms enhance efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts for selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure, and are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The main conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Electron transfer processes and radical species generation on high silica zeolites are known, and different aromatization mechanisms on ZSM-5-Zn generate hydrogen, contrasting with the paraffin-generating hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including ion-exchange and reduction, significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts mimic physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 in redox behavior and activity. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, yielding dispersed Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting aromatics/methane selectivity. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state are crucial for alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as per quote 2. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, as stated in quote 6, and increase aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, as mentioned in quote 7. Ga and Zn species, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, as in quote 10, improve efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes. Their role in increasing propene formation, as per quote 9, contributes to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, with activation energies indicating the reaction's energetics. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offering a potential alternative to the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts reported over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo species and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Mo's interaction with HZSM-5 and its role in methane dehydro-aromatization are critical. Metal loading, especially Mo and transition metals, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have an opposite effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature are performance determinants. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, significantly impact catalytic activity. The status of Mo species and its interaction with HZSM-5 are essential for understanding methane activation and advancing related theories.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyzing alkylation and direct aromatization of methane. Ga-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchanged zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also affect efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides on silica, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal, with monomeric vanadium oxide species facilitating the process. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites, followed by the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk surface vanadia sites exhibit greater activity than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while sodium forms enhance selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with low iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but lowers methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct patterns in methanol and carbon dioxide production rates, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    