Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation clustering, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity. Basic oxides inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Reactants' redox properties modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product selectivity. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction rate and further oxidation by Vv availability, governs the process. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts exhibiting higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are essential for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange, lowering activation energies, and influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly affecting alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces promote the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitated by stable Ga3+ coordination and decreased extraframework oxygen basicity. Water co-feeding boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity. These insights are vital for understanding mechanisms and efficiency in alkane transformations, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, and acidity. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds in hydrocarbon oxidation is significant, with bridging V-O-support bonds appearing critical. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, but activation energies are similar for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with vanadia density for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reactivity. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density and monovanadate species show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates and high temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Ga/ZSM-5 boosts dehydrogenation activity over HZSM-5 by forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, stabilized by steam. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the interplay between catalyst structure and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by Mo species. At high molybdenum loading, polymolybdate species dominate, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric Mo=O species, present in ammonia-treated catalysts, show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient catalysts for alkane transformations, notably in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. They exhibit nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the importance of iron and zeolite matrix composition in catalyst efficiency, making them promising for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics like benzene and naphthalene. Activity is enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions, with Mo leading the sequence for aromatization. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation is a challenge. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored, with Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites showing promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, vanadium loadings, and environmental conditions. Lower loadings yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. Propene selectivity is optimized by high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 enhances catalytic activity, with acidity and Lewis site strength impacting efficiency: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, and Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, respectively. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly influence efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are essential for processes such as MTG, olefin production, and light alkane aromatization, key to the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, crucial for weakening the CH bond in methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance spectra and XPS analysis, indicates the presence of MoO42species. XRD spectra show no aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The new catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde industrially attractive for liquid fuel production and synthetic organic methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption. The support's role in vanadium oxide catalysts is pivotal for lowering barriers, especially for propane adsorption, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenate to alkenes, central to aromatics conversion using ZSM-5 catalysts. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 improve stability and efficiency, preferred for zinc's stability at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, altering the mechanism to favor hydrogen removal, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating a unique mechanism crucial for understanding efficiency and mechanisms in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, excel in selective oxidation, with vanadium ions isolated in a quasi-inert matrix. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explainer, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality, though pivotal, is insufficient alone, as highlighted in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups, dehydrogenating to propylene and dihydrogen, which shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene with high activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly boosts methane activation, dehydrogenation, and aromatization. Higher methane partial pressure increases benzene yield, highlighting the impact of catalyst composition and reaction conditions on alkane transformation efficiency, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified HZSM-5 shows strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium-modified HZSM-5 has weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane conversion, is pivotal for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition, all critical for optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn, which also generates hydrogen during aromatization, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity marginally increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, reducing gallium to Ga+ up to limits set by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts accelerate alkane transformations by enhancing conversion rates, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They catalyze H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen, and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, boosting aromatic turnover while reducing cracking turnover. By acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, these species improve efficiency and selectivity. Removing H-atoms from acid sites increases propene formation and decreases by-product formation, leading to higher yields of desired products in industrial processes, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The alkyl route, with lower activation energies, is more favorable. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond. The carbenium route, with a high activation barrier, is less efficient. These insights are crucial for enhancing selectivity in aromatization processes, vital for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is a studied alternative to the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly impacts catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, influencing mechanisms and efficiency. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading, such as Ru, Pt, and W, enhances reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have an opposite effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature significantly impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The introduction of Mo species and the addition of a second metal component alter acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge to reaction understanding and process development. The role of Mo species in methane dehydro-aromatization is crucial for advancing methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for butane's oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethane. Tetrahedral V5+ species dominate at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species at higher loadings increase activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites initially and VOSi bridging oxygen sites subsequently. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency. This highlights the significance of catalyst structure and conditions in industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Fe(III) in framework sites, enhance alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form increases selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is seen with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are pivotal: increased temperature and longer contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure and form of Fe-ZSM-5 significantly affect reaction mechanisms and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support significantly affects reactivity and selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. The isolation of active sites is crucial for efficient catalyst design, with isomorphous substitution of active metals into microporous materials being a promising strategy. VOx-SBA-15, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, provides a system with a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, making it one of the best-performing catalysts in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by feed redox properties, affecting the catalyst's surface state and product formation. The mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction and further oxidation by Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Oxygen balances in C4 alkene oxidation show the Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with differences in reactivity and interaction between but-1-ene and n-butane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species facilitating alkane dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites driving olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and accelerating CH bond cleavage. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, synergistically acting with Brnsted sites to enhance aromatization by directly impacting alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, underlining their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes and are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments, affecting the oxidation states during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Reactivity properties are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species, specifically the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, such as active sites and acidity. Optimizing these factors enhances the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and boosting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are about eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature, influenced by vanadia surface density. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces impact reaction rates and selectivity. Isolated monovanadate structures at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1, with the local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affecting oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, is crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, significantly reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while a P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen-containing atmosphere enhances performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts influence alkane transformations through two preparation methods: conventional impregnation forming tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, and aqueous impregnation with ammonia washing, yielding a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts decrease methane conversion but increase formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are pivotal in oxidative hydroxylation, achieving high selectivity in converting benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, driving advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for its conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms is revealed through studies. Oxygen is critical for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen aim to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' effect on catalysts has been studied, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component can enhance catalyst performance. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency is influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance catalytic efficiency by forming active species and adjusting the acid site ratio, with the acidity sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, impacting activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and light alkane aromatization, with reaction conditions affecting active species and performance, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield compared to conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to the presence of highly dispersed MoO42species, which are formed by reacting the zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups with the basic acetylacetonate ligands, avoiding water to isolate molybdenum oxo species in oxidation state VI. The mechanism involves the activation of methane through the weakening of the CH bond, facilitated by the zeolite surface. This process is industrially significant due to the potential to convert methane into methanol or formaldehyde, leveraging vast natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced by considering a triplet state. These findings suggest a complex mechanism, possibly involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The necessity of reducing propane adsorption barriers highlights the critical role of the catalyst support in enhancing efficiency, underscoring its industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic research targets light alkane conversion, notably methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, and higher alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Aromatization isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar functionality with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, evidenced by differing kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's selectivity in oxidation [1] and its ion isolation in a quasi-inert matrix [2] enhance efficiency. Product stability [3], multifunctionality [4], C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9] are pivotal. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design [5] and elucidates reaction mechanisms [6], though it's not the sole factor [7]. These elements underpin the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which lead to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis. Catalyst efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn significantly enhances catalytic activity, crucial for methane activation. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, supported by a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial importance of these catalysts for achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations show that bridging O atoms on V2O5(001) surfaces are optimal for propene production due to weaker propoxide binding, unlike terminal O atoms which can hinder propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release to convert alkanes into olefins effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit unique ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium shows weak adsorption, producing ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons at high temperatures. This difference in activation mechanisms directly impacts hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and is crucial for the industrial conversion of alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, impacting industrial significance in methane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for, and are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn, highlighting the role of hydrogen generation in aromatization mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with Ga+ state, are active for propane aromatization, akin to Ga2O3-H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga3+ catalysts are more active and selective. High-temperature reoxidation generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane-to-aromatics conversion, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Pretreatments impact ethane dehydrogenation performance, and for high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active state for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations, enhancing propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This boosts efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover while reducing cracking. Ga and Zn species accelerate propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products and enhancing yields. Their role in recombinative desorption is crucial for extracting H2 with high selectivity from light alkanes in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and less favorable carbenium activation. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium route has a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, highlighting selectivity for small alkane aromatization in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, highlighting the role of metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods, metal impregnation, calcination temperature, and pre-treatments significantly influence catalytic activity. Reaction conditions, such as temperature, pressure, and methane space velocity, also play a key role. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting the reaction mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The role of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower V loading favors VO4 tetrahedra, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while higher loading promotes VO6 octahedra, boosting activity. Acid site nature varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites playing a critical role in the rate-determining step. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates on OVV sites. Bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit greater activity than silica-supported monomers, significantly impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, metal valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Alkane/O2 ratios and oxide support affect vanadium reduction and catalytically significant centers. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through redox properties, surface dynamics, and P:V ratio. The feed's redox potential modifies the catalyst's surface, affecting product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, dependent on Vv availability. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity and activity. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase, and surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn enhances H/D exchange in alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites, and the formation of Zn alkyl species, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. The synergistic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly affecting alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. In zeolites, confined spaces promote the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination and catalytic efficiency (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cations significantly react towards heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water co-feeding boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of these species are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and (3+) species in reducing environments. Reactivity is dependent on the specific hydrocarbon and oxide support, with isolated species on silica showing greater stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure, but interacting additives like niobia can increase the turnover frequency (TOF) for certain reactions, while basic additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, decreasing TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction affects sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. Optimizing these elements enhances efficiency, leading to higher product yields and selectivities. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending their life and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures. Isolated monovanadate species, prevalent at low surface densities, enhance alkene selectivity at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts reaction rates and selectivity, requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios for optimal alkene yields. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity at all conversion levels. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K).", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, enhancing activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation in Ga/ZSM-5. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology, V5+ reduction, and the exposure of the (001) plane. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing catalyst performance. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives, like Zn2+, enhance performance by avoiding overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared conventionally or with ammonia-washed impregnation, exhibit distinct activity in methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional preparation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading, which block zeolite channels and decrease dispersion. These species are more reactive in methane activation but lead to low formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts, with a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their efficiency in alkane transformations. This performance underscores their potential in new organic synthesis technologies, influenced by iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are crucial in methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics like benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports, along with active species and mechanisms, are pivotal. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation is acknowledged, with efforts to avoid CO and CO2 by directly converting methane to higher hydrocarbons. Catalyst activity can be enhanced by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is due to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation methods and environmental conditions, are critical for alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing catalytic activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction optimal at temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation by forming active species such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. These sites are pivotal for catalytic activity, selectivity, and conversion. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are critical for alkane transformations. Their industrial significance stems from their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation is crucial for converting vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectroscopy confirmed the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra showed highly dispersed oxo species, distinct from aggregated MoO3 found in aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, enhancing its industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show that propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide has higher energy barriers than supported vanadia, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency. This insight is critical for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane undergo dehydrogenation to alkenes, pivotal in aromatization processes that convert light gases to BTX aromatics with ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity for aromatics is incomplete, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Zn/H-MFI zeolites boost efficiency through Zn2+ cations, favoring hydrogen removal and modifying alkane activation. Two mechanisms explain regioselectivity: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification promotes methyl group regioselectivity in propane, altering the exchange mechanism. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating a distinct mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially in a quasi-inert matrix, are critical for alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality, though essential, is not solely adequate, highlighting the complexity of catalyst design for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, exhibiting high activity and selectivity. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo and Zn incorporation, with increased benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the importance of catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, converting alkanes to olefins through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, emphasizing the need for balanced catalyst properties for efficient oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation paths. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium allows weak adsorption and dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. This divergence in activation mechanisms directly impacts hydrocarbon conversions, affecting efficiency and selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is crucial for enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Factors such as pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition significantly affect these processes. For instance, FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite demonstrate the role of these factors in the production of CH3OH, HCHO, and methane conversion to aromatics, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering structural differences, and are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes and dienes. Pretreatments significantly affect catalyst performance for ethane dehydrogenation, with reoxidized materials showing higher activity and selectivity for aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting propene and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, thereby improving efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes. This is achieved by facilitating H-atom desorption from acid sites, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing H2 formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably dehydrogenation, via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and less favorable carbenium activation due to a high activation barrier. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, initiating dehydrogenation and dehydrocyclooligomerization, enhancing selectivity for small alkane aromatization in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being a promising alternative. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, highlighting the role of metal loading and dispersion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading, demonstrating the importance of these factors in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 and the presence of metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V and Li have a negative impact. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions such as temperature and pressure significantly affect catalytic efficiency. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory, as it sheds light on the reaction pathway and challenges posed by carbonaceous deposits.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation via the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, achieving high selectivity on silica support within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for butane's oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at higher loads, with octahedral V5+ species showing higher activity but lower selectivity than tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides on silica, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is crucial. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are critical in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature is critical: increased temperatures elevate methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the catalyst's working state dynamics are crucial for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps, controlled by vanadium's valence state, determine selectivity and efficiency. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with optimal performance at high conversion for more oxidizable catalysts. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affects catalytic activity and selectivity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and specific P:V ratio enhance n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, influencing product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, forming aromatics. Zn and Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and enhancing the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites. This synergistic action of Zn and Brnsted sites leads to enhanced conversion of alkanes to aromatics on Zn-modified zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition, but water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer surface coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments affect the oxidation states of surface vanadia species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations, converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. Optimizing these elements enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst operational life, which is crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites catalyzes alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Oxidation forms reactive gallyl ions in ZSM-5, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and aiding hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, as evidenced by increased hydrogen formation compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and optimal catalyst composition has a slight excess of phosphorus, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations during conditioning also impact performance, critical for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde, is influenced by molybdenum species and loading. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, while monomeric species, despite lower methane conversion, show higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) decreases dispersion and blocks zeolite channels, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient in selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene conversion to phenol at 25-30% conversion. This underscores the critical role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in enhancing the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency boosted by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and the synergetic effect between metal components and supports are essential. Oxygen plays a key role in deep oxidation, with strategies to produce higher hydrocarbons avoiding CO and CO2. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling is an alternative direct route since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Metal activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propene selectivity is maximized with dispersed isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity, with the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increasing at higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts catalytic activity by enhancing acidity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, critical for efficiency, follows the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances catalytic activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The preparation process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, confirmed by XPS analysis and UV diffuse reflectance spectra. The catalyst's structure, influenced by the reaction conditions, significantly impacts the efficiency of alkane transformations. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation methods, contributes to its superior performance. The catalyst's specific activity and the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface lead to high CO selectivity, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This innovation is industrially significant due to the conversion of methane into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal that catalyst support significantly reduces high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, emphasizing the role of catalyst structure in efficiency. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, lower energy barriers, enhancing catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, convert light alkanes to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes pivotal in industrial processes. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their stability at high temperatures, addressing zinc volatilization. Aromatization processes, though not fully selective, produce light alkenes alongside BTX components.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolites, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal in propane's regioselective H/D exchange. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, which is significant for understanding the efficiency of alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium in metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, is critical for selective alkane oxidation. Its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix boosts performance. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient. These insights are vital for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing a catalysis science challenge. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity at high temperatures under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and metal cation incorporation significantly improves ZSM-5's catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For example, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001), both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, but an efficient catalyst must balance this activation with propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium shows weak adsorption, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons at high temperatures. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion, requiring high selectivity and longevity. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, underlining their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2 at higher densities. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including ion-exchange and reduction, significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 enhances propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, generating optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production at 550C, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments, with aromatics yields enhanced by adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption to form dihydrogen. They enable dehydrogenation without cracking, boost propene formation, and increase aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving reaction rates and selectivities. These metals increase H2 formation via recombinative desorption and remove H-atoms from acid sites, allowing turnover without cracking products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. This process follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored, and less viable carbenium activation, both involving zinc cations as acceptors. Computed activation energies highlight the first route's efficiency over the second. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, as shown by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen showing formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Efficiency and mechanisms are influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity are pivotal for methane dehydro-aromatization. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, influencing reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation are major research focuses, impacting process development. Understanding Mo species' role in reaction pathways is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being most reactive, confirmed by DFT calculations favoring H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation and direct aromatization of methane, with mechanisms involving metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity rising and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. Acid site nature changes with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity. Characterization methods reveal that the type of vanadium species depends on vanadium content, with isolated and/or associated tetrahedral and/or octahedral V5+ species at lower loadings and V2O5 crystallites forming at about 60% of the theoretical monolayer coverage.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental to significant technological and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites for the initial step and VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the subsequent step. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene production. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and recent DFT calculations indicate that vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol production occurs at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring methane conversion but decreasing methanol concentration due to further oxidation. Temperature increase also raises methane conversion. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct reaction speed patterns for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with the sodium form favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Selectivity peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Alkane/O2 ratios impact the extent of vanadium reduction and the number of active centers. Support materials like silica, alumina, and titania affect selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit activity dependent on Mo surface density, with stronger MoO bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting reduction and influencing catalytic properties, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties, affecting the catalyst's surface oxidation state, significantly influence product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity. A two-step mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation by Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with the PVO system exhibiting variable crystalline phases. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity but reducing activity. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the PVO system's active site, oxidation state, and structure. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange in alkanes, lowering activation energy, and facilitates reversible CH bond cleavage. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species, which synergistically enhance aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes enhancing activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations promote ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination and decreased basicity aid H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure is determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, influenced by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species are stable under reducing environments, transforming into vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds is critical, with the latter being associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites needed for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting both reactivity and selectivity. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency and yields. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Optimal alkene yields are achieved at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, on catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadates. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density and predominately monovanadate structures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites catalyzes alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 to GaO+ boosts activity, stabilized by steam. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, enhancing catalyst stability. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, preventing overoxidation. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or ammonia washing, impact methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation results in monomeric and polymolybdate Mo species; higher Mo loading favors polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in alkane transformations, converting benzene to phenol with near-perfect efficiency. Catalyst performance in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics, driving advancements in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to aromatics benefits from transition metal-supported zeolites, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Performance enhancements are achieved by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports impact activity and stability. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct route. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation, as well as methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites, have been studied.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by loadings, are pivotal. Lower loadings yield active isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor less active VO6 octahedra. Optimal temperatures for the exothermic reaction are around 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity, with the AlVO4 portion increasing at higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation boost catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. The strength of Lewis sites follows Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, which is pivotal for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances catalytic activity in MPO reactions compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, facilitated by the weakening of the CH bond through zeolite surface interaction, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of these isolated species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower barriers. The need for support in vanadium oxide catalysts for propane adsorption highlights its role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly ZSM-5, are essential in converting propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their high-temperature stability, underscoring the significance of catalyst composition in efficiency. The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also forming. Catalysts like ZSM-5 offer a means to convert light gases to aromatics, especially BTX components.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, altering the exchange mechanism. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI indicate an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation (Quotes 1, 2). Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding (Quote 6), though it's not solely sufficient (Quote 7). C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) are critical. These factors enhance efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, underscoring their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and increases benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. These modifications significantly enhance alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency, improving ZSM-5's catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. Reaction conditions and a carbenium ion mechanism contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) exemplifies the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species. These differences significantly impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts for selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion to CH3OH, HCHO, and aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency and structure are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains as monovanadate species decrease. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process entails dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, affecting selectivity with space velocity. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, impacting efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, significantly influencing the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H-atom disposal to form dihydrogen. These species enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, enhancing H2 formation and propene production, improving selectivity and reducing cracking by-products. Their efficiency is pivotal in industrial processes, contributing to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes, as evidenced by their role in increasing aromatic turnover rates and decreasing cracking turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, with ethane activation proceeding through alkyl or carbenium activation facilitated by zinc cations. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies for key steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, impacting efficiency. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These catalysts are essential for industrial aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being a studied alternative. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al. with 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, significantly affects catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts reveals selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, and the valence and location of Mo species, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The introduction of Mo species changes the acid sites of the zeolite, affecting reaction mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene surpasses that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, whereas higher loadings favor octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Monomeric species on silica initiate the process, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites first, then at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than monomers on silica, enhancing propane oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the iron content, form (sodium or hydrogen), and temperature. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature significantly impacts the process; higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity (Quote 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 12-13). The sodium form of Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide more rapidly than the hydrogen form (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium and molybdenum oxide catalysts are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Activity in vanadium oxides increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains for optimal reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Supported molybdenum oxides exhibit activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, influencing CH bond activation steps and enhancing selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is balanced by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties, selectivity, and activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system forms various crystalline phases, with the P:V ratio and defect structure influencing catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves a single-site process under high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize for optimal coordination, with binuclear gallium-oxo species cleaving CH bonds, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance. Stable coordination and reduced basicity enhance H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support phase, is crucial. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface coverage. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity differently, depending on the specific reaction. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkane activation under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, boosting product yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts show higher propene formation rates, approximately eight times that of ethene, with similar activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Optimal conditions for high alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with the lowest vanadia surface density, and alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Oxidation of gallium in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, and water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species. Dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, enhancing methane conversion but reducing formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Ammonia washing creates a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, resulting in lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production (Quote 6). High Mo loading decreases dispersion and blocks zeolite channels, affecting efficiency (Quote 3).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are exceptional catalysts in selective oxidation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is significantly influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics. Advances in aromatic hydroxylation could pave the way for novel organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, excel in methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and the sequence of transition metal activity (Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr) are critical. Surface oxygen species facilitate CH bond splitting, crucial for methane activation. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde, and indirect synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, are viable strategies. Oxidative coupling of methane and non-oxidative conditions suppress CO and CO2 formation, improving efficiency. Catalyst preparation and treatment methods significantly impact the conversion of methane to desired products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching high temperatures. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, impacting efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Interaction with the zeolite surface weakens methane's CH bond, initiating activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influence CO selectivity. The catalyst's isolated MoO42species significantly improve formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding 45-80 kcal/mol. However, using a support for vanadium oxide catalysts significantly reduces adsorption barriers, enhancing efficiency. More complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, may further lower these barriers, crucial for improving alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes to methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes transform independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is crucial in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatization, especially BTX production. Alkane-to-aromatic conversion yields light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane's methyl groups, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal over deuterium, through two pathways: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity, with kinetic parameters differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's preference and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix (Quotes 1, 2) enhance selective oxidation. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality as a criterion in catalyst design and tool for explaining reaction mechanisms (Quotes 5-7), type of C-H bond activation (Quote 8), and acidity/basicity (Quote 9). These factors are crucial for industrial applications, highlighting the catalysts' significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's role shifts with pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. Hydrogen desorption enhances propylene formation, explaining the aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and increases benzene yield, which escalates with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism facilitates methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. These findings highlight the industrial value of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling effective methane conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) surfaces reveal the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal efficiency. Terminal O sites are too reactive for propene release, emphasizing the importance of catalyst design. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium facilitates ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, creating gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Specific catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, highlight the impact of these factors on performance, enhancing selectivity and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered, and rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn, which increases BTX selectivity with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, notably reduction and reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, exhibiting similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics, which is stable under reaction conditions but can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for propene and aromatic production. Acting as 'portholes', they facilitate H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking and enhancing propene yield. Sequential H-atom release limits reaction rates and selectivity, but Ga and Zn improve H2 formation via recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This increases aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, catalyze alkane transformations through two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The alkyl activation route, with lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1), is favored over the carbenium route, which has a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts enhance zeolite selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes, underscoring their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is a significant challenge, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature profoundly impact catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts influencing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Efficiency is influenced by metal-zeolite interactions, Mo species' valence and location, and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are critical. Reaction conditions, including pre-treatments and parameters like temperature and pressure, significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and the addition of Mo and a second metal modifies zeolite's acid sites. Methane activation's mechanism remains debated, and heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affect selectivity and activity, with Lewis sites dominant at lower loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted sites present at higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica facilitate hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit higher activity than supported monomers. Catalyst structure and composition significantly influence reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the highest conversion (31.51%) achieved using Fe-HZSM-5 with the largest iron content. The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol (74%) is observed with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves conversion but reduces selectivity to methanol. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The reaction speed for methanol production and oxidation to carbon dioxide is consistent when Fe-HZSM-5 is used, whereas methanol oxidation to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide is faster with Fe-NaZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    