Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting efficiency. The degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties are key factors. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, or titania, influences selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2, and MoOx domain size impacts Mo O strength, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by redox properties, which affect the catalyst's surface state and product formation. The dynamics of the catalyst surface and its modifications are critical for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. A two-step reaction mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is controlled by the rates of Vw reduction and Vv availability. Catalyst preparation procedures impact redox properties and selectivity. In the vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, the P:V ratio and crystalline phase affect performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, indicating varied catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze recombinative desorption of H atoms as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is influenced by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard reduction and influence TOFs, while noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes into valuable products like aromatics and isomers under mild conditions. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts were studied for their role in ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at lower vanadia surface densities (<800 K) show the highest initial alkene selectivity and yield. Reaction rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities, influenced by the transition from monovanadates to poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, optimizing olefin yields on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest temperature avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, particularly in light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affects alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the reaction energy for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; the P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives, enhancing performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation followed by ammonia washing, exhibit distinct activity in methane conversion to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high Mo loading, causing decreased dispersion and channel blocking. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species activate methane but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts, with monomeric species, show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's features. This process, using dinitrogen monoxide, represents a promising direction for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods significantly impact catalyst performance, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 shows promise for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been investigated, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed in concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing acidity in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These species, crucial for efficiency, enable reactions such as MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, vital for the petrochemical industry. The strength and density of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, determine selectivity and conversion of alkanes. These catalysts are significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly influence alkane transformations. This catalyst, after calcination, exhibits enhanced MPO activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, is industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Spectroscopic analysis confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) on the surface. XRD spectra show the absence of MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Reducing others, such as for propane adsorption, likely requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with processes like Oleflex and Cyclar employing ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatics production, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. This highlights the role of catalyst composition in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences the efficiency of alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, changing the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolite leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity influence efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI zeolites catalyze propane conversion through initial dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene further oligomerizes, cyclizes, and aromatizes over acidic sites, with dihydrogen participating in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, enhancing aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo modified ZSM-5 catalysts is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. Mo and Zn incorporation enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, demonstrating the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations under non-oxidizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. For instance, DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O site is too active, hindering propene release, which is crucial for an efficient catalyst. The industrial importance of these catalysts stems from their ability to selectively oxidize inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing the global demand for these products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane polarizability, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation forms Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium results in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, aiming for higher selectivity and longevity. Factors like pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition impact efficiency. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, where selectivity is influenced by these factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts, however, are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but hydrogen-reducible. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects. For high aromatic yields, trace rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in zeolites, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom desorption to form H2, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, particularly in propene formation. These enhancements contribute to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, making metal-based catalysts industrially significant in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in such catalysts revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are crucial. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance. Specific metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation mode is a debated topic. Carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization are significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefin selectivity. Selectivity for ethene from ethane is higher than for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects catalytic performance, contributing to the industrial relevance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. The catalytic activation of CH bonds is a fundamental step in these processes. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica. Hydrogen abstraction occurs on OVV sites for the first step and can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces may enhance activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures promoting its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts supported on silica exhibit greater selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from the isolation of active sites, with isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous and mesoporous materials. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per Mo atom peaking at specific surface densities. The size of MoOx domains impacts Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting propylene combustion, thus enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, including solvent type and P:V ratio, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. The activation of CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn, forming intermediates that lead to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in confined spaces of zeolites is studied through spectroscopy and theory, leading to structure-activity relationships for catalysis. In high-silica zeolites, isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, driven by optimal coordination of metal centers. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon environments, with insights from in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5) silica-supported species may relate to isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, with a decrease in Lewis acid sites and an increase in Br0nsted acid sites upon surface vanadia formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with vanadia coverage, with their role needing further study. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, with effects being reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which are critical for activating light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with vanadia density for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved on catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density shows the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction (Quote 1). P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, with a slight excess of phosphorus being optimal (Quotes 10, 22). Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation (Quote 15). Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. Catalysts with a balanced phosphorus excess exhibit high activity and selectivity, crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with higher Mo loadings (>1.3 wt.%) leading to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This highlights the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports, along with active species and mechanisms, are crucial. Oxygen use in conversion processes leads to deep methane oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion relies on synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes over supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5 catalysts. Non-oxidative conditions enable methane to benzene conversion in flow reactors with transition metal ion-supported HZSM-5. Transition metal ion activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component enhances activity or stability. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions, play a critical role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation is highly exothermic, reaching temperatures above 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with dispersed isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species after calcination. This innovation is significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into more valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates its activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of these species, while XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. The catalyst's performance is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, which are crucial for CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are notably higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the use of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, impacting the efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, with ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation (Quote 1). The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix (Quote 2) and multifunctionality, as a design criterion and mechanism elucidator (Quotes 5-6), are critical. However, multifunctionality alone is insufficient (Quote 7). C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity also impact efficiency (Quotes 8-9). These factors enhance the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to chemical products or fuel, using Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising natural gas utilization method. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is significantly enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling efficient dehydrogenation and aromatization under stable, non-oxidizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. For instance, DFT calculations on single-crystal V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, but the terminal O site is too active, hindering propene release, which is essential for an efficient catalyst. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to convert alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via distinct mechanisms: strong molecular adsorption by Zn2+ leads to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while weak adsorption by Ga+ results in ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, without Brnsted acid proton formation. This difference impacts hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the type of support and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx surface density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, akin to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. Catalyst pretreatments significantly influence performance, with reoxidized forms favoring aromatics over methane. Small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium enhance aromatics yield. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within zeolites, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This boosts propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. The sequential H-atom release limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates on H-ZSM5. These catalysts significantly contribute to industrial processes by increasing desired product yields and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation processes. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with the ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations acting as alkyl group acceptors, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, impacted by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are key. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mode is debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in the reaction pathway are significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being the most reactive, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and olefin selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene from ethane is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products from butane. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V loadings, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing alkane transformations in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically significant centers depend on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric VO4 species are active, with polymerized species more extensively reduced. Catalysts' selectivity is influenced by the oxide support, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Selectivity to propylene correlates with basicity and MO bond energy. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, and microporous materials are promising for this purpose. Molybdenum oxide-based catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their performance can be optimized by controlling Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and influencing CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system forms various crystalline phases, with the P:V ratio and defect structure influencing catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, forming Zn-alkyl intermediates. This interaction enhances H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites enhances alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing cationic species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as catalytic experiments show enhanced dehydrogenation activity of Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite upon water co-feeding. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lived on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species exhibit different reactivities based on the specific oxide support, preparation methods, and the presence of surface Lewis and BrCnsted acid sites. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives enhancing hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The unique characteristics of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, crucial for industrial applications. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, making them significant in industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia with varying surface densities and structures was studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar and insensitive to vanadia density. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed for the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates and operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; additives; and activation/conditioning at high temperatures. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. This is crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation methods impact methane to formaldehyde conversion efficiency. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature monomeric species, offering lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the oxidation of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's features. This understanding can lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, affecting active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting research into oxygen-free transformations to suppress CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions enhancing activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, offers an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 effective at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, play a critical role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic reaction reaching temperatures of 873 K or higher. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both isolated and polymerized, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to catalyze under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite for methane partial oxidation (MPO), significantly impact alkane transformations. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts in MPO reactions. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, enhanced by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting avoids water, yielding isolated MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal significant barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, with energies 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, higher than experimental findings. Barriers may decrease with complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires vanadium oxide catalyst support, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure and conditions in alkane transformations, particularly in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes like C&/C, can undergo conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, with ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, altering the mechanism of alkane activation. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, promoting hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange, suggesting an alternative mechanism on Zn/H-MFI.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's preference in selective oxidation, its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix, and the product's stability are critical. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism elucidator, yet it's insufficient alone. C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity also impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressure: hydrogen evolution is favored at low pressures, while hydrogenolysis is preferred at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, especially in methane conversion to benzene. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances catalytic activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions. The yield of benzene improves with higher methane partial pressure, highlighting the role of metal cations in methane activation. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the latter offering easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active for propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms. Zinc-modified catalysts form acid-base pairs, resulting in strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation leads to Brnsted acid protons, while gallium activation results in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. Catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane conversion to aromatics, respectively, demonstrate the need for higher selectivity and longer life. These factors are crucial for industrial significance in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H has rate-controlled dehydrogenation, while ZSM-5-Zn has a quasi-equilibrium process. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity slightly increased. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization similarly to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity. Reoxidation at 550C yields a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatment. To maximize aromatics yield, trace rhenium, platinum, or rhodium is added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium in zeolites, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as seen in the acceleration of deuterium incorporation from D2. These metals facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption to form H2, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Ga and Zn species increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting desired product yields. This selective H-atom removal contributes to high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation routes. The first involves CH bond alkyl activation, while the second is carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation to alkenes is the initial aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These insights enhance the efficiency and selectivity of zeolite catalysts in aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show high selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, is key to formaldehyde selectivity in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal interactions with zeolite supports, especially Mo species with HZSM-5, are pivotal for catalytic activity and the formation of aromatics and carbon deposits. Select metal loadings improve reactivity and stability, influenced by preparation methods and calcination temperatures. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly affect catalytic performance. Mo species interaction with HZSM-5 is critical for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition impact catalytic activity. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, with carbon deposits posing a challenge for process development. Understanding Mo species' role in reaction pathways is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Acid site nature changes with vanadium loading, influencing the catalyst's industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), impact alkane transformation efficiency. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Catalysts' performance is also affected by the support material, with vanadium oxide on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds exhibiting lower activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, affected by the feed's redox properties, determines product formation. Vanadium's valence state change, controlled by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is crucial. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio's effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are significant. A two-step reaction mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride, controlled by vanadium's oxidation state, affects selectivity. The preparation procedures' impact on catalyst properties, especially in the PVO system, reveals the role of solid-state chemistry and the P:V ratio. The layered structure and intercalation chemistry of the PVO system influence catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity in the n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction. Surface oxygen concentrations support the mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects and highlight the reactivity and interaction of the two hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted sites, with Ga or Zn facilitating H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium to olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates CH bond breakage and formation, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite confirm. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, whereas reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of reactions, though the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact the efficiency of processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. Surface density impacts the ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates differently for ethane and propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects showed inconsistencies, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. Detailed analysis of ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadia/alumina samples showed that poly-vanadates form at higher surface densities, affecting reaction rates. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation are similar, with propene formation being more favorable than ethene. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly GaO+ ions formed by oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide, significantly boosts dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+ ions, and water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the reaction energy for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, exhibit distinct activity in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loadings, which block zeolite channels and activate methane but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-treated catalysts, rich in tetrahedral monomeric Mo=O sites, show lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, notably the oxidation of benzene to phenol, achieves nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions influence catalyst activity: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed on alumina support at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, play a critical role in selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, with highly dispersed MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting avoids water, leading to isolated molybdenum(VI) oxo species with high dispersion, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes in processes like Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming, using catalysts such as ZSM-5. These conversions, including methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, are not completely selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, indicating its significance in altering alkane transformation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality, though essential, is not solely adequate. These factors underpin the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts play a pivotal role in propane activation, with the initial step involving dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites lead to propylene and dihydrogen formation, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation. The efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and liquid fuel, using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield with increasing methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 is studied under non-oxidizing conditions, revealing a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. The addition of metal cations improves ZSM-5's catalytic activity, enabling efficient methane conversion to benzene with high selectivity and stability, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the efficiency of these processes. For instance, single-crystal V2O5(001) can activate the CH bond of propane via both radical and oxo-insertion pathways, but its high activity at terminal O sites hinders propene release, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation with propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, highlighting the need for optimized catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, the type of support (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density significantly influence the structure and catalytic behavior of supported vanadia. At surface densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia appears as highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx surface density. Polyvanadates form at lower densities on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites, favoring primary combustion, decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures at given surface densities, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. Oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates are comparable on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary propene oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike the rate-controlled process over ZSM-5-H. Increasing space velocity leads to enhanced BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reduced Ga/ZSM-5 is less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which generate optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments. Rhenium, platinum, or rhodium additions boost aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production lacks reduced Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing reaction rates and selectivity. These metals facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and reducing cracking products, thus increasing propene formation. This selective H-atom removal contributes to the extraction of valuable H2 with high selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. For ethane dehydrogenation, two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The zinc cation facilitates alkyl rupture, with computed activation energies for the three steps being 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a studied alternative to the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are key. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly impact catalytic activity. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The introduction of Mo species changes zeolite acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. The mode of methane activation is a contentious topic, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support for high selectivity. The process follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing various metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites with Mo or Zn convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while the mechanism for methane to ethylene conversion is debated. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, and Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental, impacting both technological and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, with hydrogen abstraction occurring primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers on silica, affecting the overall efficiency of the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domains' properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and slowing CH bond activation, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed impact the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, influenced by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and the reduction rate, is crucial. Two reaction steps are identified in the transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation of this intermediate. The first step is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second is controlled by the amount of Vv available. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The redox properties of catalysts are preparation-dependent. At low conversion, catalysts show similar selectivity, but at high conversion, the more oxidizable catalyst decomposes maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its various crystalline phases, is complex. Synthesis variables, such as solvent type, affect the crystallinity and defect structure of the active phase. The P:V ratio is key to determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. The different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. Hydrogen desorption promotes olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn boosts H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form during alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, making these transformations industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density, featuring isolated monovanadate species, show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. Optimal conditions for alkene yield include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, enhancing dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A P/V ratio above stoichiometric levels stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are critical for the industrial significance of these catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, with higher Mo loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol, highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties in influencing catalyst efficiency. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion method. Studies reveal Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity for methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective at high temperatures, though coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been investigated, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These active species and acidity levels are essential for efficient alkane transformations. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, also affect the nature of active species and catalytic performance. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to catalyze reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MPO catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly enhance alkane transformations, particularly methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde. This process is scientifically and industrially relevant due to the abundance of methane in natural gas reserves. The new catalyst, after calcination, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improving formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafting method avoids the formation of MoO3 aggregates, typically seen with aqueous impregnation, leading to higher CO selectivity attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. This discrepancy suggests the importance of the support in lowering barriers, particularly for propane adsorption, highlighting the role of supported catalysts in enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing transformation without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes like Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, changing the mechanism to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and deuteride abstraction from another propane molecule; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity levels are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are crucial for alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The presence of Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. The incorporation of metal cations into ZSM-5 significantly improves dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, highlighting their industrial significance in converting methane to chemical products with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins, meeting the global demand for these valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species. These differences crucially affect hydrocarbon conversions, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane to aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar across supports when VOx structure is considered, and are comparable on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. Secondary propene oxidation rates are independent of support identity, VOx density, or structure. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition, structure, and conditions affect alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. The apparent activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts, similar to Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures, are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C yields dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene dehydrogenation. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts lack framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. The sequential H-atom release limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates, but Ga and Zn facilitate H2 formation, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. These metals increase aromatic turnover and decrease cracking, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. They boost propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products, and enhancing desired product yields. Recombinative desorption contributes to high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation processes. Two distinct routes for ethane activation were identified: the first involves alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second starts with carbenium activation. The dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes is the initial step in aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with the rupture of the ethane CH bond, facilitated by zinc cations acting as acceptors of the alkyl group. Activation energies for the three steps in the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the first step. These catalysts are industrially significant for their ability to enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial, affecting acid sites and catalytic activity. Select metal loadings improve reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The real status of Mo species during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation. Silica optimally supports small clusters for high selectivity at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, confirmed by DFT calculations, involves H-abstraction to form propene. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation and direct aromatization of methane, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, industrially relevant, activate H2 and alkanes for H/D exchange and aromatics formation. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity but peaking selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species dominate at lower loadings, favoring selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, prevalent at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in bulk surfaces than as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and Fe(III) incorporation, is crucial for understanding its performance. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly but also accelerate its oxidation compared to hydrogen form catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and enhancing propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes are governed by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are two key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, respectively. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. This shifts equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or through alkane adsorption. For high Zn content zeolites, Zn alkyl species form at ZnO clusters. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups, with protonation by zeolite OH groups facilitating H/D exchange. The mechanism involves methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes. Zn species form intermediates with alkanes, enhancing CH bond activation. Znalkyl interaction with zeolite acid sites facilitates H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization ability. The direct influence of Zn on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In confined spaces of zeolites, spectroscopy and theory develop structure-activity relationships for catalysis. Isolated GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, reveal a terminal V=O bond and bridging V-O-support bonds for isolated species, and additional bridging V-O-V bonds for polymerized species. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is linked to the dehydrated V(5+) state, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of these reactions appears to be influenced by the type of additive, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing these factors enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Their industrial significance lies in the ability to transform light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, affecting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Ga/ZSM-5, upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forms reactive GaO+ ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and organic medium use lower the transformation temperature. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by ammonia washing, resulting in a well-dispersed monomeric phase. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency hinges on the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's chemical composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This process offers promising advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions influence catalyst activity: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, forming isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches max temperatures of 873 K. Studies focus on high-temperature, high-loading vanadium oxide species, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, identified by spectroscopy, increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These species and acidity are critical for efficiency. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species' stability and reducibility, influence selectivity and conversion. Their industrial significance lies in catalyzing reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, essential for the petrochemical industry, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. After grafting, calcination produced highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, is scientifically and industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirmed the presence of molybdenum(VI) species. XRD spectra showed high dispersion of oxo species, unlike aggregates found in aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with a focus on processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX components. While not completely selective, these conversions also produce light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences the efficiency of alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, changing the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms contribute to regioselectivity in methyl groups: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium is favored for selective oxidation, and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products or fuel, using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising natural gas utilization method. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo or Zn incorporation enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 is studied under non-oxidizing conditions, showing improved catalytic activity with metal cation addition. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, indicating the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium activation yields gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, affecting hydrocarbon conversion efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. For instance, FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively, demonstrate the impact of these factors on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered, and are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. The rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. The different behavior of BTX selectivity with space velocity over the two catalysts is explained by the quasi-equilibrium of the BTX-forming dehydrogenation process over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Catalysts for high aromatics yield often include rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in zeolites, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. These species facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2) and allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Ga and Zn increase propene formation and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, boosting yields of desired products and reducing by-products. This selective H-atom removal contributes to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-yield alkane transformations and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction mechanism starts with the ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen showed formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are critical for catalytic activity. Certain metals like Ru and Pt improve reactivity and stability, whereas V and Li have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic outcomes. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite activity. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization are significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica is the optimal support, stabilizing isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, catalyzing H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and aromatization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and olefin selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower in butane than in ethane. VO4 tetrahedra are observed at lower V loadings, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Octahedral V5+ species boost activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species enhance selectivity. Acid site nature changes with V loading, affecting catalyst performance. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity when part of the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time significantly affect the process: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration diminishes at higher temperatures due to further oxidation. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    