Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Their performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity. Basic oxides inhibit MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product selectivity. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction and the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange, lowering activation energies, and influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly affecting alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces impact reactivity, fostering the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitated by stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ and decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These insights are critical for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, contributing to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structure, and acidity. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds in hydrocarbon oxidation is significant, with bridging V-O-support bonds appearing critical. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while regeneration methods extend operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, but activation energies are similar for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with vanadia density for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reactivity. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density and monovanadate species show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates and high temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly in Ga/ZSM-5, significantly boost dehydrogenation activity over HZSM-5 by forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, stabilized by steam. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the complex interplay between catalyst structure and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo species. Polymolybdate species, dominant at high molybdenum loading, enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric Mo=O species, present in ammonia-treated catalysts, show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts for alkane transformations, particularly in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. They demonstrate nearly 100% selectivity in the oxidation of benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron and zeolite matrix composition in catalyst efficiency. This process is a promising direction for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. The activity sequence for aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a challenge. CH bond splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored, with Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. Propane dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, peaks at 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species optimizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities create active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The acidity sequence is HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly impact efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are crucial for processes like MTG, olefin production from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, vital for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including those for methane partial oxidation (MPO), are pivotal in alkane transformations. A new MPO catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, crucial for weakening the CH bond in methane activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, confirmed by UV diffuse reflectance spectra and XPS analysis, indicates the presence of MoO42species. XRD spectra show no aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The high CO selectivity of Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde industrially attractive for liquid fuel production and synthetic organic methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which are significantly reduced by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The support's involvement in vanadium oxide catalysts is critical for lowering barriers, especially for propane adsorption, thus enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenate to alkenes, central to aromatics conversion using ZSM-5 catalysts. Light alkanes yield aromatics and alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5, preferred for zinc's stability, operate similarly, improving reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, altering the mechanism to favor hydrogen removal, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating a unique H/D exchange mechanism, which is crucial for understanding the efficiency and mechanism of alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is pivotal. Efficiency is enhanced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and understanding reaction mechanisms but is not sufficient alone. These factors are critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, as highlighted by the role of vanadium ions, multifunctionality as a criterion and tool, and the type of C-H bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's role shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene with high activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, dehydrogenation, and aromatization. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, demonstrating the impact of catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions on alkane transformation efficiency, which is crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the importance of balancing CH bond activation and propene release for optimal performance, as terminal O atoms can be too active, hindering propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Zinc-modified HZSM-5 shows strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium-modified HZSM-5 has weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The catalysts' industrial significance lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane conversion, is critical for improving selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition, which are essential for optimizing performance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Apparent activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity marginally increases. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ up to limits set by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They catalyze H-atom recombinative desorption, forming dihydrogen, and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, boosting aromatic turnover while reducing cracking turnover. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. By removing H-atoms from acid sites, these species increase propene formation and decrease by-product formation, leading to higher yields of desired products in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1). The initial step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond. The carbenium activation route is less favorable, with a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being widely studied as a potential replacement for the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are essential. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading, including Ru, Pt, and W, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperature influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The role of Mo species in methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Selectivity for butane's oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethane. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are predominant, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites initially and VOSi bridging oxygen sites subsequently. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: increased temperature and longer contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, with Fe(III) incorporated into framework sites, affects reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support significantly affects reactivity and selectivity, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting ODH performance; alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts involves isolating active sites, with isomorphous substitution of active metals into microporous materials being a promising strategy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity trends with Mo surface density, with domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation steps, but increasing propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by feed redox properties, affecting the catalyst's surface state and product formation. The mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction and further oxidation by Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. The system exhibits intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Oxygen balances in C4 alkene oxidation show the Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with differences in reactivity and interaction between but-1-ene and n-butane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, where metal species dehydrogenate alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating CH bond breakage. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly influencing the activation of alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, underlining their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes and are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments, affecting the oxidation states during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Reactivity properties are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species, specifically the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions, including active sites, acidity, and pore structure, influence oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing composition and conditions. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethene and propene formation rates are influenced by vanadia surface density, with propene formation being about eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces impact reaction rates and selectivity. Isolated monovanadate structures at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are essential for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, especially the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, significantly reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, while a P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen-containing atmosphere enhances performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts impact alkane transformations through two preparation methods: conventional impregnation forming tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, and aqueous impregnation with ammonia washing, yielding a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts decrease methane conversion but increase formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving high selectivity in benzene conversion to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, offering advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for its conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms is revealed through studies. Oxygen is critical for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen aim to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' effect on catalysts has been studied, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component can enhance catalyst performance. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 enhance catalytic efficiency by forming active species, increasing the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio, crucial for alkane conversion. The sequence of acidity is HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, impacting catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and light alkane aromatization. Reaction conditions affect active species and performance, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield compared to conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to the presence of highly dispersed MoO42species, which are formed by reacting the zeolite's acid hydroxyl groups with the basic acetylacetonate ligands, avoiding water to isolate molybdenum oxo species in oxidation state VI. The mechanism involves the activation of methane through the weakening of the CH bond, facilitated by the zeolite surface. This process is industrially significant due to the potential to convert methane into methanol or formaldehyde, leveraging vast natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide highlight high energy barriers, which are reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia, suggest a more complex reaction mechanism, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The reduction of propane adsorption barriers requires the involvement of a support, underscoring the catalyst support's importance in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic research focuses on converting light alkanes, notably methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes like propane and butane can be converted without co-reactants, central to processes like Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming, using catalysts such as ZSM-5 for aromatics production, especially BTX. Aromatization isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and zeolites, as metal-based catalysts, are crucial for alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's pivotal role in selective oxidation [1] and the isolation of its ions in a quasi-inert matrix [2] are highlighted. Factors like product stability [3], multifunctionality [4], C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9] significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality serves both as a design criterion [5] and a mechanism explanation tool [6], though it's not the sole factor [7]. These elements are essential for the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption favors propylene formation, explaining the high aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts are critical in alkane transformations, specifically converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts catalytic activity, essential for methane activation. Increasing methane partial pressure enhances benzene yield, with a suggested carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts for achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that bridging O atoms on V2O5(001) are more conducive to propene production due to weaker propoxide binding, contrasting with the excessive activity of terminal O atoms that hinder propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, crucial for converting alkanes into olefins to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium exhibits weak adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons at high temperatures. This difference in activation directly affects hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their role in selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion processes. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition, all of which impact industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for, and are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn, highlighting the role of hydrogen generation in aromatization mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics, which is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates capable of aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments affect catalyst performance for ethane dehydrogenation, and for high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active state for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations, enhancing propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This boosts efficiency and selectivity, increasing aromatic turnover while reducing cracking. Ga and Zn species accelerate propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products and enhancing yields. Their role in recombinative desorption is crucial for extracting H2 with high selectivity from light alkanes in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, offering two distinct ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and carbenium activation. In Zn-doped zeolites, alkanes dehydrogenate to alkenes, which then undergo dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation route, though present, is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These insights highlight the selectivity enhancement for small alkane aromatization in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, demonstrating the role of metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are critical. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5, along with Mo species' valence and location, are crucial for catalytic performance (Quote 3). Select metal loadings, including Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, calcination temperature, and pre-treatments significantly influence catalytic activity (Quote 6). Reaction conditions, such as temperature, pressure, and methane space velocity, also play a key role. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization (Quote 7). Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting the reaction mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The role of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation via subsequent H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion to ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower V loading favors VO4 tetrahedra, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while higher loading promotes VO6 octahedra, boosting activity. Acid site nature varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is essential, paralleling enzymatic reactions and technological processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is enhanced by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites pivotal in the rate-determining step. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates on OVV sites. Bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit greater activity than silica-supported monomers, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduces methanol selectivity (Quote 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures (Quote 11), but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, metal valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Alkane/O2 ratios and oxide support affect vanadium reduction and catalytically significant centers. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their redox properties, surface dynamics, and P:V ratio. The feed's redox potential modifies the catalyst's surface, influencing product formation. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, dependent on Vv availability. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity and activity. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase, and surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn enhances H/D exchange in alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide sites, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites, and the formation of Zn alkyl species, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Zn directly affects alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, enhancing aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cations significantly react towards heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Water co-feeding boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity (Quote 7). These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. The molecular structures of these species are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and (3+) species in reducing environments. Reactivity is dependent on the specific hydrocarbon and oxide support, with isolated species on silica showing greater stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure, but interacting additives like niobia can increase the turnover frequency (TOF) for certain reactions, while basic additives can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, decreasing TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction affects sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting additives. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly affect mechanisms and efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. Optimizing these elements enhances efficiency, yielding higher product yields and selectivities. These catalysts are industrially vital for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending their life and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, and similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species, prevalent at low surface densities, enhance alkene selectivity at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts reaction rates and selectivity, requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios for optimal alkene yields. Acid-base properties of the VOx and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhancing activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, increasing dehydrogenation in Ga/ZSM-5. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology, V5+ reduction, and the exposure of the (001) plane. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional or ammonia-washed impregnation, exhibit distinct activity in methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional preparation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading, blocking zeolite channels and decreasing dispersion. These species are more reactive in methane activation but lead to low formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts, with a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, specifically converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This high efficiency is influenced by the nature of catalytic activity, iron's role, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's characteristics, making it promising for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and mechanisms are revealed through advanced studies. Oxygen is essential in many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation, but researchers aim to avoid CO and CO2 by transforming methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, and adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhances activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is due to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation methods and environmental conditions, are critical for alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing catalytic activity. VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings, achieving optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation by forming active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing acidity and the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. These sites are critical for catalytic activity, selectivity, and conversion. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are key factors in alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production of petrochemicals.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, synthesized by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This innovation is crucial for converting vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectroscopy confirmed the presence of molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD spectra showed highly dispersed oxo species, distinct from aggregated MoO3 found in aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, enhancing its industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, larger than those for supported vanadia. The role of support in lowering these barriers highlights the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency. These insights are critical for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatization processes, converting light gases to BTX aromatics with ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity for aromatics is incomplete, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Zn/H-MFI zeolites enhance efficiency by leveraging Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal and altering the mechanism of alkane activation. Two key mechanisms explain regioselectivity: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification changes the exchange mechanism, promoting methyl group regioselectivity in propane. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably in selective oxidation and isolated in a quasi-inert matrix, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is enhanced by product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. While multifunctionality is essential, it's not solely adequate, highlighting the complexity of catalyst design for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with increased benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. Catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, highlighting the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for balanced catalyst properties for efficient oxidative dehydrogenation. These catalysts address the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation follows distinct paths: zinc promotes strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium, in contrast, allows weak adsorption and dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. This divergence in activation mechanisms directly influences hydrocarbon conversions, affecting efficiency and selectivity in industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are significantly affected by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. For example, FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite illustrate the impact of these factors in the production of CH3OH, HCHO, and methane conversion to aromatics, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As surface density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions determine VOx structures, but turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering structural differences. Rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization occur, alongside C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes and dienes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates can aromatize specific alkenes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Pretreatments significantly affect catalyst performance for ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing propene and aromatic turnover while minimizing cracking, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically dehydrogenation. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. The process begins with the ethane CH bond rupture, aided by zinc cations, leading to dehydrogenation and subsequent dehydrocyclooligomerization. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol as a promising alternative. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions, including Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5, are critical for catalytic activity. Metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V and Li have a negative impact. Preparation methods and calcination temperature also influence performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, significantly affect catalytic efficiency. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory, as it sheds light on the reaction pathway and challenges posed by carbonaceous deposits.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation via the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with silica as the optimal support for high selectivity within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for butane's oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at higher loads, with octahedral V5+ species showing higher activity but lower selectivity than tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also impact efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides on silica, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a key step, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, whereas the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are pivotal: higher temperatures enhance methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, and methanol concentration diminishes at elevated temperatures due to further oxidation. The catalyst's structure, featuring Fe(III) framework incorporation, is critical for catalytic activity. Sodium form Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures, and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the catalyst's working state dynamics are crucial for understanding selectivity-controlling properties. Oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation steps, controlled by vanadium's valence state, determine selectivity and efficiency. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with optimal performance at high conversion for more oxidizable catalysts. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affects catalytic activity and selectivity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and specific P:V ratio enhance n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, influencing product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, forming aromatics. Zn and Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane adsorption. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds. This mechanism explains the enhanced conversion of alkanes to aromatics on Zn-modified zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination aid H2 desorption. Hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition, but water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer surface coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments affect the oxidation states of surface vanadia species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with industrial significance. Optimizing composition and conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects on ethane and propane reactions have shown inconsistencies, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation. Upon oxidation, gallium forms reactive gallyl ions in ZSM-5, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 proceeds by heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, as observed in increased hydrogen formation compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and optimal catalyst composition has a slight excess of phosphorus, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations during conditioning also impact performance, critical for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde, is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, where high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) decreased dispersion and blocked zeolite channels. The other series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but reduced formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts showed lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene conversion to phenol at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the importance of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhanced efficiency from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and the synergetic effect between metal components and supports are crucial. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation is acknowledged, with efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without CO and CO2 formation. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling is an alternative direct route since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Metal activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propene selectivity is maximized with dispersed isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The sublimation introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 forms active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The preparation involves washing, drying, and calcination, yielding highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. XPS analysis and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of isolated MoO42species. The catalyst's structure, influenced by the reaction conditions, significantly impacts the efficiency of alkane transformations. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation methods, contributes to its superior performance. The catalyst's specific activity and the presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface lead to high CO selectivity, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This innovation is industrially significant due to the conversion of methane into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced by catalyst support, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency. Complex reactions, such as concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower energy barriers, contributing to the catalyst's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is key in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, using ZSM-5 catalysts to convert light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. Aromatization isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolites, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal in propane's regioselective H/D exchange. Two proposed mechanisms involve propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium in metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, is pivotal for selective alkane oxidation. Its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhances performance. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's not solely sufficient. These insights are crucial for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, with dehydrogenation over Zn sites yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, addressing a catalysis science challenge. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and metal cation incorporation significantly improves ZSM-5's catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001), both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium exhibits weak adsorption, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons at high temperatures. These differences directly influence hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are critical for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, especially in methane conversion, where there's a need for higher selectivity and longevity. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary propene oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged ZSM-5 allowing gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, generating optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production at 550C, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments, with aromatics yields enhanced by adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption to form dihydrogen. They enable dehydrogenation without cracking, enhance propene formation, and increase aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving reaction rates and selectivities for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and less favorable carbenium activation, with zinc cations acting as acceptors. The first aromatization step is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, with carbenium activation hindered by a high barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, with W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen showing formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is critical for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, where channel structure, acidity of HZSM-5, and Mo species' valence and location are key. Metals such as Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation are major research focuses, impacting process development. Understanding Mo species' role in reaction pathways is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being most reactive, confirmed by DFT calculations favoring H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation and direct aromatization of methane, with mechanisms involving metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while those with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, boosting activity. The nature of acid sites changes with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial, as it initiates significant technological and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation employs monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites for the initial step and also at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the subsequent step. Propene formation is notably faster on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene production. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (quote 7). Optimal methanol production occurs at lower temperatures (quote 11), with higher temperatures favoring methane conversion but decreasing methanol concentration due to further oxidation (quote 12). Temperature increase also raises methane conversion (quote 9). The structure, characterized by typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct reaction speed patterns for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with the sodium form favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (quotes 13 and 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is governed by the agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Selectivity peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Alkane/O2 ratios influence the extent of vanadium reduction and the number of active centers. Support materials like silica, alumina, and titania impact selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with stronger MoO bonds exhibiting lower activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting reduction and influencing catalytic properties, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by redox properties, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity, with a two-step mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation by Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with the PVO system showing variable crystalline phases. The P:V ratio is critical for selectivity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity but decreasing activity. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the PVO system's active site, oxidation state, and structure. Different PVO phases, like a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance, with the optimal V4+/V5+ ratio crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange in alkanes, lowering activation energy, and facilitates reversible CH bond cleavage. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes enhancing activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations promote ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination and decreased basicity aid H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure is determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, influenced by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species are stable under reducing environments, transforming into vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds is critical, with the latter being associated with the critical oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites needed for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting both reactivity and selectivity. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing pivotal roles. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Optimal alkene yields are achieved at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, on catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadates. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density and predominately monovanadate structures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide to GaO+, exhibit increased activity, stabilized by steam. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods that affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, enhancing catalyst stability, while additives impact oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives, like Zn2+, improve performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, preventing overoxidation. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or ammonia washing, influence methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields monomeric and polymolybdate species, with higher molybdenum loading favoring polymolybdate formation, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at the expense of methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's characteristics, offering advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with performance enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Studies reveal a synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, impacting activity and stability. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, an alternative direct route, has been widely studied. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been investigated, as has methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by vanadium loadings, are critical in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Optimal temperatures for the exothermic reaction are around 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation enhance catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. The strength of Lewis sites follows Al > Ga > Zn > Fe, critical for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances alkane transformations. After washing, drying, and calcination, it outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts in MPO reactions. Methane's conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, facilitated by the weakening of the CH bond through zeolite surface interaction, is industrially significant. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol), exceeding experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, underscoring the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes, with processes like aromatization to BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their high-temperature stability, highlighting the impact of catalyst composition on efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification alters the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation, with vanadium ions' isolation in a quasi-inert matrix boosting efficiency (Quote 1, 2). Product stability, multifunctionality (Quote 4), C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) are pivotal. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding (Quote 6), yet it's not solely sufficient (Quote 7). These factors are essential for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. These modifications significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency, boosting ZSM-5's catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. Reaction conditions and a carbenium ion mechanism contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlights the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for optimal catalyst performance. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct pathways: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption, whereas gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, yielding ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid proton formation, unlike gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species. These differences significantly influence dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, underscoring the industrial importance of these catalysts for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, crucial for advancing methane conversion, enhances selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease, and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, affecting selectivity with space velocity. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, impacting efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 (Quote 3). However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics (Quote 4). Reoxidation generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen (Quote 6). Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation (Quote 11). The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly influence the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio, indicating relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H-atom disposal to form dihydrogen. These species allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing H2 formation and propene production, which improves selectivity and reduces cracking by-products. Their efficiency is critical in industrial processes, contributing to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the zinc cation facilitating the process. The initial aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism's efficiency is influenced by activation energies, with the carbenium activation being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol being widely studied as a potential replacement for conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, with Banares et al. achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts shows selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, critically affect alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions are pivotal, with optimized catalysts and conditions boosting efficiency. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite supports influences aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, coupled with Mo species' valence and location, are crucial for catalytic performance. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others have contrasting effects. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting reaction mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, while Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, improve selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, with oxidative dehydrogenation of propane involving monomeric species on silica. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites, followed by the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the Si/Fe ratio, iron content, and form (sodium or hydrogen). Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature significantly impacts the process; higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains for optimal balance between surface activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene, and N2O substitution for O2 promotes a more reduced, selective surface. Selectivity follows the order of increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and influencing CH bond activation steps, enhancing selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is balanced by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties, selectivity, and activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system forms various crystalline phases, with the P:V ratio and defect structure influencing catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves a single-site process under high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing these relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo species cleave CH bonds, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination and reduced basicity enhance H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support phase, is pivotal. Terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds play distinct roles in reactivity, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface coverage. Noninteracting additives like niobia can enhance TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity differently, depending on the specific reaction. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure enable the activation and transformation of light alkanes under mild conditions in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts efficiency, increasing product yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit higher propene formation rates, about eight times that of ethene, with similar activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but slightly increases for propane. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with the lowest vanadia surface density, and alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Gallium in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, and water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species. Dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, enhancing methane conversion but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia washing creates a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, resulting in lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production. High Mo loading in the first series decreases dispersion and blocks zeolite channels, affecting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, notably converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites, particularly Mo/HZSM-5, excels in conversion, with activity boosted by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and the sequence of transition metal activity: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, are critical. Surface oxygen species facilitate CH bond splitting. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde, and indirect synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, are viable. Oxidative coupling of methane and non-oxidative conditions suppress CO and CO2 formation. Catalyst preparation and treatment methods significantly impact efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching high temperatures. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species boosts propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities form active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, boosting acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites escalates in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) boosts activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakens upon zeolite surface interaction, initiating activation. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Spectroscopic and XRD analyses confirm MoO42species presence and high dispersion, unlike aggregates from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface influence CO selectivity. The catalyst's isolated MoO42species significantly improve formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, exceeding experimental findings for supported vanadia. A support for the vanadium oxide catalyst reduces the adsorption barrier, crucial for enhancing efficiency. More complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may further lower barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Alkane-to-aromatic conversion isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal over deuterium, through two proposed pathways: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's preference and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhance selective oxidation. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's not solely sufficient. These factors are pivotal for industrial applications, underlining the catalysts' significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly boosts methane activation and benzene yield, which escalates with increased methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism facilitates methane dehydrogenation and aromatization on modified ZSM-5. These findings underscore the industrial value of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling effective methane conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the importance of balancing CH bond activation and propene release for efficiency. Terminal O sites are too reactive for propene release, underscoring the need for a catalyst that optimally facilitates both processes. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, creating gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity, and are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Specific catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate the impact of these factors on performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered, and rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. Secondary propene oxidation rates are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction and reoxidation, significantly impact aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, critical for propene and aromatic production. Acting as 'portholes', they facilitate H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking and enhancing propene yield. Sequential H-atom release limits reaction rates and selectivity, but Ga and Zn improve H2 formation via recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This increases aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformation mechanisms. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1). The carbenium route has a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1), making it less favorable. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing zeolite selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by metal ion-zeolite interactions, Mo species' valence and location, and the channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are critical. Reaction conditions, including pre-treatments and parameters like temperature and pressure, significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, while the addition of Mo and a second metal changes zeolite's acid sites. Methane activation's mechanism remains debated, and heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity but peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, favor selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, influenced by vanadium loading, also affect selectivity and activity, with Lewis sites dominant at lower loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted sites present at higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica. This highlights the role of catalyst structure and composition in influencing reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances conversion but decreases selectivity to methanol. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, confirmed by XRD patterns, shows Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    