Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity with optimal V2O5 loading and intermediate VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, notably silica, increases selectivity over alumina and titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but enhance propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is critical, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an effective strategy for catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, yet enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, significantly impacts product formation. Vanadium's valence state is contingent on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and the catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods, particularly the P:V ratio, determine selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits intercalation chemistry, impacting catalytic performance. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, enhancing ethane and methane formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane activation through dissociative adsorption, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites, promoting aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships optimize catalytic performance, with spectroscopy revealing insights. In zeolites, confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, essential for ethane dehydrogenation. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These findings are pivotal for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their performance is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, specifically active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities, contributing to industrial significance. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene, yet sharing similar activation energies (Quote 2). Initial alkene selectivity is enhanced by isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities (Quote 5). Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities (Quote 13). High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios (Quote 16). The highest alkene yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions (<800 K) (Quote 39).", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5 exhibit enhanced activity upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forming reactive gallyl ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. High P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, while specific morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are critical for the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced monomeric and polymolybdate species; high loading led to decreased dispersion and channel blocking. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured a well-dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient catalysts for oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties, offering promising technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in converting methane to higher hydrocarbons like benzene and naphthalene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports are crucial, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. Enhancements in activity and stability are achieved by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied, and direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde are significant. Methane aromatization over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been explored, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 showing promise at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support nature, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form on alumina surfaces, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities enhance catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly influence alkane selectivity and conversion, making them industrially significant in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, is crucial for activation. Highly dispersed MoO42species enhance formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making the conversion of methane into methanol and formaldehyde industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced by considering complex reactions and the role of a support. This emphasizes the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency, as the support for vanadium oxide is critical in lowering barriers and improving the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in aromatization processes, especially for BTX production, utilizing catalysts like ZSM-5. Selectivity in converting alkanes to aromatics is partial, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, promotes alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, driven by Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts and zeolites are vital for alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium excels in selective oxidation and benefits from ion isolation in a stable matrix. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms, yet it's not the sole determinant. These elements are pivotal for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen production through dehydrogenation. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Partial pressure impacts efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. These catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. The enhanced catalytic activity by metal cations contributes to their industrial significance, enabling selective and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. CH bond activation on V2O5(001) surfaces via radical and oxo-insertion pathways enhances propene production, with bridging O atoms facilitating easier propene release. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing global demand for olefins through selective oxidation. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane differently, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, polarizing it at room temperature and enabling heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences are pivotal for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are pivotal for alkane transformations, affecting efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Enhancing selectivity and longevity through catalyst development is crucial for these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2 below 7 VOx/nm2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher BTX selectivity (60-70%). Propane conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn yields hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's paraffin generation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably aromatization and dehydrogenation, is significantly influenced by pretreatments. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics, generating dispersed Ga3+ that is optimal for ethane conversion. This form of Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio and indicating relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance alkane transformations by accelerating chemical conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for dihydrogen formation. They act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal from acid sites, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking. This boosts propene and aromatic production while reducing cracking turnover rates, improving reaction efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Aromatization initiates with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane to formaldehyde conversion over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are central to alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are pivotal. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity is significant. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while others may diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature are influential. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 is critical for methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation, which operates within a narrow optimal temperature window. This process follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where H-abstraction by VV surface oxo species is crucial. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation and direct methane aromatization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane products. At low loadings, VO4 tetrahedra are observed, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while VO6 octahedra are predominant at high loadings. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides catalyze alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, by activating CH bonds, crucial in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites in bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, highlighting the impact of catalyst structure on reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are pivotal in methane conversion. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time significantly affect conversion and selectivity; higher temperatures increase conversion but decrease methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration drops at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11 & 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency is influenced by the agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal vanadium atom reactivity. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst selectivity is affected by the support material, with vanadia on silica being more selective than on alumina or titania. The VOx-SBA-15 system, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, provides a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, making it one of the best performing catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox potential of the feed determines the surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the amount of Vv available. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The P:V ratio in vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) systems significantly impacts catalytic performance, with an optimal V4+/V5+ ratio crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, accelerating H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes and boosting reaction rates by lowering activation energies. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide sites, forming Zn alkyl species that facilitate H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. The synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds, with Zn directly influencing the activation of these bonds by the catalyst's Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, studied through spectroscopy and theory. Gallium species form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water co-feeding boosts reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as catalytic experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life (Quote 5), and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species (Quote 12). Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species (Quote 16). Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species (Quote 18). The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species (Quote 27). The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to the bridging V-O-support bond, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF (Quote 33). Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple surface sites (Quote 41), while basic additives can decrease TOFs (Quote 44). Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific (Quote 54).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being key factors. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions boosting yields and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance propene formation rates, which are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, driving processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical in alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, temperature, and conditioning. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, with a slight excess of phosphorus enhancing performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures, and low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere impacts behavior. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a balanced P/V ratio ensures high activity and selectivity. These factors are crucial for industrial processes involving alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, through their composition. At high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%), polymolybdate species boost methane conversion but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, ammonia-washed catalysts with monomeric species exhibit lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency hinges on zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, underpinning advancements in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for methane conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and mechanisms is crucial, as revealed by studies. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation drives efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched to improve catalyst performance. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is optimal at temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance selectivity and conversion by creating active species and increasing the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio. Metal species stability and reducibility are also critical. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and olefin manufacture from methanol, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. Unlike aqueous impregnation, this method avoids MoO3 aggregates, leading to isolated MoO42species, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis. These species enhance formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, making methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. The new catalyst's MoO42species significantly improve formaldehyde yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. The support's role in reducing adsorption barriers is highlighted, with complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination further enhancing catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, convert propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes through dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, crucial for aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane by leveraging Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites. This modification enhances alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal over methyl groups, demonstrating the importance of catalyst alteration in achieving regioselectivity and altering reaction pathways in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, which is essential but not solely adequate, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. These factors are key to the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K with high selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, enhancing dehydrogenation and aromatization. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, demonstrating industrial significance. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the latter promoting easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the high activity of terminal O hinders propene release, emphasizing the need for a balanced catalyst activity for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane for dehydrogenation. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species. These distinct mechanisms significantly influence hydrocarbon conversion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal for enhancing methane conversion, with FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 exemplifying methane-to-aromatics processes. Efficiency and selectivity in industrial alkane transformations are significantly influenced by pretreatment, temperature, additives, metal state, location, and feed composition, underscoring the importance of optimizing these factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatics adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species, affecting aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H uses hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, notably reduction to Ga+ and reoxidation to Ga3+, significantly influence aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Reduced Ga+ boosts propane aromatization but is less effective for ethane dehydrogenation compared to reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates dispersed Ga3+, which is optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, indicating its crucial role in these processes. Reduced Ga+ isn't the most active form for aromatics production, highlighting the importance of reoxidation in achieving high selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' for efficient H-atom removal. This boosts propene yield and reduces by-product formation, making them industrially significant for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, facilitate alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and dehydrocyclooligomerization. Two routes for ethane activation are alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable. The mechanism begins with zinc coordinating the alkyl group upon ethane CH bond rupture, enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, vital for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others have a detrimental effect. Preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic performance. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on small clusters and fully covered oxide surfaces, particularly with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites activating H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms, with higher ethene selectivity than oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid site nature, varying with vanadium loading, influences selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, impacting both technological and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled with monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, shows hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites and secondarily at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces enhance activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Catalyst structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for alkane transformation mechanisms (Quotes 1, 4, and 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support affects V5+ reduction and reactivity, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2 in ethane ODH. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane ODH. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation. Basic dopants enhance propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by feed redox properties, surface modifications, and reaction conditions. The valence state of vanadium, controlled by feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, dictates product selectivity. Surface dynamics and modifications, induced by hydrocarbons, reveal the importance of Vw reduction and Vv availability in the two-step reaction to maleic anhydride. Selectivity is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate, with optimal performance at specific V4+/V5+ ratios. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its interconversion of V(IV) and V(V) phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. Synthesis variables, like solvent use, influence crystallinity and defect structure, affecting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio, crucial for selectivity and activity, optimizes at 1.1. PVO exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic efficiency. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest distinct catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, involving metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for olefin oligomerization and cyclization. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefins further oligomerize and dehydrocyclize into aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores activate alkanes before interacting with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites activates alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatic formation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by its promotion of H/D exchange and its role in alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with GaO+ species oligomerizing to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the nature of the oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structure is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is linked to the dehydrated V(5+) form, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, can influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions' efficiency. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and reaction conditions enhancing efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Their industrial importance is underscored by their role in transforming alkanes into aromatics and isomers, with novel regeneration methods addressing deactivation and prolonging operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reaction rates. High alkene yields require optimized values of rate constants k1, k2/k1, and k3/k1. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Spectroscopic results suggest distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, enhancing initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K).", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly involving gallium, is crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the reduction of V5+. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied activities based on composition. Two series were tested: one with monomeric and polymolybdate species, where high Mo loadings reduced dispersion and blocked channels (Quotes 2, 3); the other, treated with ammonia, had well-dispersed monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in alkane transformations, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. This underscores the significance of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in enhancing catalyst performance for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts efficiency. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation highlights its necessity, but researchers aim to minimize CO and CO2 by producing higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits, and supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 showcases catalyst versatility. Transition metal ions significantly impact performance, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen, and direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, the catalytic properties of vanadium oxide species are influenced by preparation method, support nature, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures around 873 K with concentrated feeds. The highest propene selectivity is associated with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation boost acidity and catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are significant in the petrochemical industry due to their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields. Key factors for selectivity and conversion include the strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, have seen advancements in methane partial oxidation (MPO) through a new catalyst developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process, involving reactive acid hydroxyl groups and acetylacetonate ligands, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, improving formaldehyde yield. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. Characterized by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, the new catalyst shows Mo(VI) species highly dispersed on the surface, unlike aggregates found in aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies highlight high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding those for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the role of a support are pivotal for lowering barriers and boosting efficiency in industrial catalysis, particularly in alkane transformations using metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes targeting BTX production. Selectivity is limited, yielding light alkenes alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and promoting hydrogen removal. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms in propane are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification shifts the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, as indicated by kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored for selective alkane oxidation, excels in a quasi-inert matrix, enhancing catalyst performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are pivotal. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient, underscoring the complexity of industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate superior catalytic activity and selectivity for converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. The incorporation of Mo and Zn significantly enhances methane activation, supporting a carbenium ion mechanism. These catalysts' efficiency and industrial importance in alkane transformations are bolstered by their high selectivity and stability, with benzene yield increasing under higher methane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) favor propene production due to weaker propoxide binding, highlighting the need for a balance in CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane differently, impacting hydrocarbon conversions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, enabling strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation, producing Brnsted acid protons. Gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption forming ethyl and hydride fragments, yielding gallium dihydride species. These differences affect dehydrogenation efficiency, crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal for alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. For industrial processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation, catalysts require enhanced selectivity and longevity for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At lower densities, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn, affecting BTX selectivity. Over ZSM-5-Zn, BTX selectivity increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local hydrogen concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with hydrogen generation over ZSM-5-Zn versus hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, with reduced gallium (Ga+) limited by anionic framework sites, are active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation, generating dispersed Ga3+ at 550C, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolite catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating chemical conversion, H2 formation, and propene production. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking, thus boosting efficiency and selectivity. This mechanism increases desired product yields and decreases by-product formation, highlighting their industrial importance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and carbenium activation. Aromatization initiates with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc as an acceptor, is a critical mechanism. Activation energies for key steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation, with a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, is less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting formaldehyde selectivity and methane conversion. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, highlighting the role of catalyst composition. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrating the critical role of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo/HZSM-5, significantly affect alkane transformations. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with the zeolite's channel structure, acidity, and Mo species' properties being key for catalytic activity. Select metal loadings and preparation methods enhance reactivity and stability, while reaction conditions significantly influence performance. Changes in zeolite acid sites due to Mo species and second metal addition impact process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. Mo or Zn-containing zeolites achieve high selectivity for direct methane aromatization into benzene and H2. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Higher loading boosts activity but selectivity to olefins peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than ethene. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, with octahedral V5+ dominating at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions is higher with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show increased activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly affect methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, achieving up to 31.51% (quote 6). The sodium form enhances selectivity towards oxygenates (quote 7), while lower iron content optimizes selectivity for methane to methanol (quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity (quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, are crucial in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V5+ reduction is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Silica-supported catalysts are more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their reactivity increases with Mo surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through redox properties, vanadium's valence state, and the P:V ratio. The feed's redox potential affects the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. A two-step mechanism for alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, dependent on Vv availability. High Vv content can lead to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio determine redox properties, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and a P:V ratio of 1.1 for best selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons interact uniquely with the catalyst surface, affecting reactivity and product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, enhancing H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes with lowered activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. This leads to Zn-alkyl species formation, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly impacts the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites, promoting conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces shapes these relationships. GaO+ species oligomerize into multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, as catalytic experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing the predominant species and the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, containing only isolated species, may enhance catalyst stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while basic additives can retard reduction and decrease TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. Optimized composition and conditions enhance yields and selectivities, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities yield the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 values lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, particularly their interaction with extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly influence alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide generates reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the energy barrier for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair of Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing performance. Morphology influences oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and additives affecting activity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, optimizing behavior. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, key in alkane transformations, show efficiency variation linked to composition. Two series were studied: one with tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, where high molybdenum loading (over 1.3 wt.%) increases polymolybdate species, hindering dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, had a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, mainly tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts, however, show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, hinges on zeolite activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties. Advancements in aromatic hydroxylation suggest potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Studies confirm the sequence of transition metal activity as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane as an alternative direct conversion method has been widely studied since 1982. Methane can be activated over multi-component catalysts to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits, and transformed into higher hydrocarbons over supported Pt catalysts. The splitting of the CH bond in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by surface species structure, shaped by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. The highest propene selectivity correlates with the dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both isolated and polymerized, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. In HZSM-5 zeolites, metals Ga, Fe, and Zn form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, crucial for catalytic activity by increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios. The strength, density of these sites, metal species stability, and reducibility impact selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production. Active species and acidity levels, influenced by reaction conditions, are key for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species, which strengthens formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and XRD analyses confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. CO selectivity is influenced by residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, affecting the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The necessity of a support to reduce propane adsorption barriers underscores the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency, demonstrating the significance of catalyst composition and conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrogenation using ZSM-5 converts light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes, essential for BTX aromatics production. Selectivity is not absolute, with light alkenes also forming. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, favoring gallium to prevent zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations by promoting hydrogen removal through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. It facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via dehydrogenation followed by protonation or deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species, boosting regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, excel in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's selective oxidation role and ion isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality in design and mechanism, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality, though essential, is not solely sufficient, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to valuable products, addressing a catalysis science challenge. They exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises, indicating a carbenium ion mechanism. Metal cations significantly influence the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in V2O5(001) activate CH bonds, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. Gallium, in contrast, facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, creating ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions and efficiency in industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, exemplified by FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment, temperature, additives, metal state, location, and feed composition, all pivotal for optimizing industrial catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure evolves from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing surface density, influenced by support type. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, but forms V2O5 on SiO2. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak at intermediate VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration. BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn, and secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, with similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 accelerate alkane transformations by enhancing dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for propane dehydrocyclodimerization to C6 aromatics. These metals act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal and H2 formation, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via alkyl and carbenium activation routes. The alkyl route, with lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1), is favored over the carbenium route, which has a high barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1), enhancing selectivity for small alkane aromatization. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, facilitating the transformation.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieving over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies on W/HZSM-5 catalysts show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance efficiency. Metal ions interacting with zeolite supports affect aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loading boosts reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, influencing reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbon deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature range around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites show similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms for optimal selectivity. Selectivity to ethene surpasses that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, boosting selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting alkane transformation efficiency. Catalysts with tetrahedral V5+ species show higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas those with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, with monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica playing a key role in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with vanadyl sites crucial in the rate-determining step. Notably, vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12). The oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide follows distinct patterns depending on the catalyst form, with Fe-NaZSM-5 initially favoring methanol production but accelerating its oxidation more rapidly than Fe-HZSM-5 (Quotes 13 and 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity with intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structures. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced surface than O2. Among supports, V2O5-ZrO2 exhibits the highest reactivity. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mg modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, show peak propane ODH rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the V4+/V5+ ratio, optimal at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion for n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride, and the P:V ratio, with a ratio around 1.1 enhancing selectivity. Alkane transformations involve oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. Excessive Vv can lead to carbon oxide formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion rates. Understanding the solid-state chemistry of vanadium phosphorus oxides is crucial for reaction mechanisms. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization ability by involving both in the activation of the alkane CH bond, leading to dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to optimal metal center coordination, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life, and the oxidation state and molecular structures of surface vanadia species. The molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reduction in environments like H2 and CO forms surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, especially acidic and basic ones, modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with effects varying by reaction type.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure facilitate alkane activation, enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, as per quote 2. The highest alkene selectivity is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, as stated in quote 5. Ethene and propene formation rates are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density, reaching a maximum at intermediate densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the catalyst's role in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups during conditioning enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' performance in methane conversion to formaldehyde is influenced by molybdenum species and loading. At high loadings, polymolybdate species predominate, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity due to decreased dispersion and partial channel blocking. In contrast, monomeric species, despite lower methane conversion, exhibit higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in converting benzene to phenol, highlighting their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics, indicating potential for advanced organic synthesis technologies. Detailed literature on how these factors affect alkane transformations is needed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to aromatics, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts performance. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Surface oxygen species split the CH bond, crucial for methane activation. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. Ongoing research investigates Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites for improved methane aromatization, revealing synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation methods, and support types. Isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals into HZSM-5 zeolites boosts catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites significantly affecting selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant, enabling reactions such as the MTG process and olefin production from methanol under mild conditions, which reduces energy consumption and increases yields. The presence of active species and acidity are key for efficient alkane transformations, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts activity in methane partial oxidation (MPO), outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts in formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, is confirmed by UV and XPS analysis. XRD spectra reveal highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregated MoO3 in aqueous impregnation. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, with Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts showing high selectivity. The new catalyst's efficiency in MPO reactions highlights its potential for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. Supported vanadia exhibits lower barriers than calculated, suggesting complex pathways, possibly involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. The support for vanadium oxide catalysts reduces propane adsorption barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using ZSM-5 catalysts in industrial processes. This conversion isn't fully selective, with light alkenes forming alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 catalysts enhance BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Additionally, methane can be converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, and higher alkanes can be transformed without co-reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations, altering activation mechanisms. Two key mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation/deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient, highlighting the complexity of industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites, producing propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, enhancing aromatization activity. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate high activity and selectivity in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly for converting methane to valuable chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, but the overactivity of the terminal O site hinders propene release, highlighting the need for balanced catalyst activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, meeting global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane via distinct mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, critical for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. FePO4 is effective in CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite excels in methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia evolves from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing surface density, influenced by support type. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, highly dispersed species form below 7 VOx/nm2, while large V2O5 crystallites appear on SiO2. Polyvanadates emerge earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Higher hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn channels leads to local hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation at higher space velocities. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation to a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+, significantly influence efficiency in ethane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which yield optimal Ga3+ for aromatics production. Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of gallium's oxidation state and dispersion for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. They facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes', these species selectively remove H-atoms, reducing cracking products and increasing yields of desired products like propene and C6 aromatics. This selective H-atom removal is key for H2 extraction from light alkanes in industrial processes, as it boosts efficiency and minimizes by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene is favored, starting with CH bond rupture and zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor, over carbenium activation due to lower activation barriers. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization, enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with studies showing formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, highlighting the critical role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, are optimized by modifying metal ions, especially Mo species in HZSM-5 zeolites, which influence catalytic performance. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly impact activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with changes in acid sites affecting catalytic behavior. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, hindered by carbonaceous deposits, highlighting the need for further understanding of Mo species' role in the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates best at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics via dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those containing Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity for n-butane and ethane, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for selectivity. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V, significantly impact efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding mechanisms and applications in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, mirroring CH bond activation in enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation. Sodium and hydrogen forms of Fe-ZSM-5 exhibit different speeds in methanol production and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, enhance alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is governed by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity peaks with intermediate V2O5 loading and VOx domain size, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, influences selectivity and combustion rates. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Reactant redox properties modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface dynamics and modifications are essential for understanding selectivity. Alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by vanadium oxidation states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio significantly influence redox properties and selectivity. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its crystalline phases, affects catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio impacts selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism suggests a single-site process for n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion. But-1-ene and n-butane exhibit differing reactivity, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role in product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies, and directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH bond cleavage. The coordination environment and extraframework oxygen basicity impact H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments, with oxidation states affected by hydrocarbon environments, V(5+) being predominant. Preparation methods do not alter thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity is related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts facilitate the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimized composition and conditions enhance efficiency and yields, making them industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation reveal that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of k2/k1 for propane slightly increases with vanadia surface density, while k3/k1 decreases with temperature for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2) as two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form with increasing surface density. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga+, Zn, and Pt in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Oxidation of Ga+ in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive GaO+ ions, boosting dehydrogenation. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species and preparation methods. Two series were studied: one with tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, the other with a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, achieving high selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion, highlighting their potential for organic synthesis. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are crucial in alkane transformations, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to the interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra, enhancing catalytic performance. Isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species yield high propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity, and the AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is shaped by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, boosting catalytic activity. Acid site strength, density, metal stability, and reducibility are vital for alkane conversion and selectivity, making these catalysts economically significant for petrochemical production due to mild conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts activity in methane partial oxidation (MPO) over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Methane's CH bond weakens upon interaction with the zeolite surface, initiating activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of supported metal oxide phases. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while isolated MoO42species, obtained by grafting, are critical for high formaldehyde yield. This process is industrially significant due to the conversion of methane, a major component of natural gas, into methanol or formaldehyde, key compounds for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which can be lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption. The necessity for a support in vanadium oxide catalysts is highlighted, as it significantly enhances efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, convert light alkanes to methanol, higher hydrocarbons, and aromatics, with propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes central in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes. These convert light gases to BTX aromatics, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at reaction temperatures, mitigating zinc volatilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, promotes regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations, altering activation mechanisms to favor hydrogen removal. Two key mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation/deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification boosts regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, underscoring its importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, excel due to selective oxidation (Quote 1) and ion isolation (Quote 2). Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design (Quote 5) and elucidates reaction mechanisms (Quote 6), though not solely sufficient (Quote 7). These factors are vital for industrial alkane transformation success.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are vital for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with enhanced activity from Mo or Zn incorporation. Rising methane pressure boosts benzene yield, underlining the industrial significance of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism facilitates methane activation, crucial for selective and stable conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, V2O5(001) must balance CH bond activation with propene release for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. Gallium, however, shows weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, improving selectivity and longevity in processes like methane conversion to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, the state of the active metal, and feed composition, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity enhances BTX formation on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with paraffin generation on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly on ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 facilitates gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ at high temperatures. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting propene and aromatic turnover rates while minimizing cracking, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. These species increase H2 formation via recombinative desorption, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor in the CH bond rupture mechanism. Activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 underscore the efficiency of the primary route over the less favorable carbenium path.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed in methane partial oxidation over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity is crucial. Loading metals like Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrasting effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are influential. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, significantly affect catalytic efficiency. The introduction of Mo species and the addition of a second metal component alter zeolite acid sites, impacting methane activation mechanisms. Carbonaceous deposits hinder understanding and process development, while Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Terminal oxo species of VV are the most reactive, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, converting alkanes into aromatics via dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases and selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at high loading. Octahedral V5+ species show higher activity, while tetrahedral V5+ species achieve higher selectivity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica are crucial for alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is key. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves hydrogen abstraction on OVV sites initially, and potentially on VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step, pivotal for propene formation. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites without altering overall kinetics.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    