Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties of the solid (Quote 1). In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size (Quote 2). Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure (Quote 3). The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is lower than stoichiometric reduction (Quote 4), and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers is dependent on alkane/O2 ratios (Quote 5). Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized surface VO4 species more extensively reduced than isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation (Quote 6). Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene (Quote 7), and using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface (Quote 8). The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the specific oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 and V2O5-SiO2 in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 9). The support's role in vanadium oxide reactivity has been extensively studied, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina-supported ones, which are more selective than titania-supported catalysts (Quote 11). The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures (Quote 12). Additives like P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance (Quote 13). The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases activity but increases selectivity to propylene (Quote 15). The selectivity to propylene increases with the basicity and MO bond energy (Quote 16). Efficient catalyst design for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation involves isolating active sites (Quote 17), and isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous and mesoporous materials is a promising strategy (Quote 18). However, maintaining structure and stability of incorporated V species is a challenge (Quote 19). The VOx-SBA-15 system, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, provides a high concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, making it one of the best-performing catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 21). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 22), but propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increase with Mo surface density (Quote 23). The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity (Quote 24). Alkali dopants affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 25). Propane oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates decrease with increasing dopant/Mo atomic ratio and basicity of the alkali oxide (Quote 26). Basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx, slowing the rate-determining CH bond activation step (Quote 27). The inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by basic dopants, leading to higher selectivity to propylene (Quote 28).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency and selectivity of these catalysts are influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed affect the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate of the catalyst, and the reduction rate at the reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. The first step of oxidative dehydrogenation is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, plays a crucial role in the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface differ, affecting the type of products formed.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing conversion is controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium to olefins, suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or through alkane dissociative adsorption. Zn-alkyl species form on high Zn content zeolites. Deuterated alkane adsorption on Zn oxide leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups. Protonation of Znalkyl by zeolite's acidic OH group transfers protium from SiOHAl to deuterated alkane. The mechanism involves methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes. Zn species influence CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, forming intermediates. Znalkyl interaction with acid sites facilitates H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds. The intermediate state involving zeolite acid and alkane-and-Zn sites leads to dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Spectroscopy is key in elucidating structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. The stability and reactivity of extraframework metal-containing cationic species are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing site reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, as catalytic experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite show increased dehydrogenation activity upon water co-feeding. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their stability, determined by the surface vanadia monolayer, ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, influenced by net pH and surface point of zero charge, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species are stable under reducing and reaction environments, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Reduction in H2 and CO environments forms surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia monolayer stability on oxide supports like Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb2O5, and CeO2 contributes to industrial catalyst longevity. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, consisting of terminal V=O and bridging V-O-support bonds, are determined by the environment and catalyst composition. Surface acidity and preparation methods influence the reactivity of surface vanadia species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing one surface vanadia site are insensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive to these factors. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical properties make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are pivotal, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing efficiency, yields, and selectivity. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species and high temperatures. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have been reported with inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, affecting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Ga/ZSM-5, upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forms reactive GaO+ ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity compared to HZSM-5. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and certain additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformations. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species predominant at high molybdenum loading, causing decreased dispersion and channel blocking, and another with well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency in processes like the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. For instance, the oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites proceeds with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification significantly impacts catalyst efficiency. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been extensively studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5, with Mo, W, Fe, V, Cr showing varying activities. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation method, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species for optimal propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions, like temperature and atmosphere, influence active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production of olefins, aromatics, and other petrochemicals.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto dried HZSM-5, followed by calcination, yielding highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This process, unlike aqueous impregnation which forms MoO3 aggregates, results in isolated MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on these factors. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm the presence of MoO42species, while XRD spectra show no MoO3 peaks, indicating successful grafting. The catalyst's performance is significantly influenced by the interaction between the complex and surface OH groups, leading to the formation of highly dispersed oxo species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Reducing others, particularly for propane adsorption, requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing transformation independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, yielding alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation is pivotal, with its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix being crucial. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity all enhance process efficiency. Multifunctionality, while essential, is not solely adequate. These factors are critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemical products or liquid fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method and a catalysis science challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn in ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5, enhance dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. Reaction conditions and a carbenium ion mechanism contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active for propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures leading to ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial value of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, concurrent with cracking to C1-C2 products. Mechanistically, dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatic adsorption on ZSM-5-Zn involves electron transfer and radical generation, differing from ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Hydrogen generation during aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn contrasts with paraffin generation over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+, stable under ethane dehydrogenation conditions. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Pretreatment effects on ethane dehydrogenation were tested. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These metals facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for recombinative H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. They increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking turnover. This results in higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 with high selectivity, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism initiates with the ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations acting as alkyl group acceptors. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the initial step (67.6 kcal mol-1). These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing zeolite selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Our study on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane oxidation to formaldehyde shows selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance efficiency. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loading boosts reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature, along with pre-treatments and reaction conditions, greatly influence catalytic performance. Mo introduction changes zeolite acid sites, impacting methane activation, a debated topic with various proposed mechanisms. Heavy carbon deposits hinder understanding and process development. The real status of Mo species during reactions is pivotal for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica-supported catalysts achieve high selectivity at a narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving CH bond activation and formation of metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites can also coaromatize methane and alkanes, with some directly converting methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with octahedral species showing higher activity but lower selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions compared to tetrahedral species. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction mechanisms. The speed of methanol and carbon dioxide production differs depending on the catalyst form, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency of these processes is influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and support type. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is single-site under high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at Brnsted sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2. H atom desorption shifts equilibrium to olefins, suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates reversible CH bond formation and cleavage. Alkane activation by Brnsted sites depends on Zn, forming intermediates. Zn-alkyl species form on Zn-modified zeolites, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for catalytic performance optimization. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, driven by optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit significant reactivity in heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing their composition and reaction conditions. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene selectivity is observed at low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Previous studies on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have shown inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly isolated cations and extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective paraffin activation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for phenol production at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This process represents a promising direction for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, the role of active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation. Researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing its activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. On alumina surfaces, vanadium loadings determine the formation of isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, influence the nature of active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite for methane partial oxidation (MPO), significantly influence alkane transformation efficiency. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting onto dried HZSM-5, followed by calcination, yielding highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This new catalyst outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts in MPO reactions. Methane's CH bond weakness, due to interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the metal oxide's dispersion and nature. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The catalyst's specific activity enhances formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat reduced by considering a triplet state. The barriers, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia, may be further lowered by complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barrier reduction appears to require the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with a focus on ZSM-5. This conversion, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is central to processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Selectivity is a challenge, as light alkenes are also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 improves BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred for their stability at reaction temperatures, mitigating zinc volatilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms, though not solely sufficient. The type of C-H bond activation and the balance of acidity and basicity also significantly impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can further oligomerize, cyclize, and aromatize. Catalyst efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations due to their high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The study of propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active to release propene, making V2O5(001) unsuitable. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows two distinct mechanisms: zinc-modified catalysts exhibit strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium-modified catalysts show weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation occurring at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. The zinc case results in Brnsted acid proton formation, whereas gallium leads to gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial importance of these catalysts is in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates form at lower densities on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and conditions impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Mechanistically, ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion to aromatics. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly impact alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These metals facilitate H2 formation and propene production by acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This improves efficiency and selectivity, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation to formaldehyde demonstrate selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are critical. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbonaceous deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation mechanisms are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the preferred support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing various metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, impacting efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial in both industrial and enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane models. Hydrogen abstraction occurs on OVV sites for the first step and can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites playing a secondary role without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Longer contact times and higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. The catalyst's composition and structure, along with reaction conditions, are pivotal in controlling the efficiency and selectivity of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, in alkane transformations are influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at lower vanadia loadings. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is controlled by vanadium's valence state. The P:V ratio impacts selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a specific ratio. Catalyst preparation methods and the nature of the active phase, such as vanadyl pyrophosphate, are key to understanding efficiency. Surface oxygen concentration and the interaction of hydrocarbons with the catalyst surface are critical for selective conversion to maleic anhydride. The stability and reactivity of different catalyst phases, like a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, a mechanism subject to debate. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin transformations yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action between Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by factors like monolayer surface coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer on oxide supports ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, which depends on the surface point of zero charge of the oxide support and the amount of surface vanadia species. The hydration-dehydration processes of supported vanadia catalysts are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in reducing environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The molecular structures of reduced surface vanadia species can be determined using various spectroscopic techniques. The influence of hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments on the oxidation states of surface vanadia species has been examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of the V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be related to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly influence the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The specific structure or modification of the oxide support does not affect the local structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 crystalline powders have both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species on oxide supports decreases the number of surface Lewis acid sites and increases the number of surface Br0nsted acid sites. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties of supported vanadia catalysts are related to the dehydrated surface vanadia species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a hydrocarbon oxidation reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying the surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts have unique physical and chemical characteristics, contributing to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, converting them into valuable products, making them industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed with low vanadia surface density. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, with propene formation being more favorable. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures possible without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam addition. Ga/ZSM-5 exhibits higher dehydrogenation activity than HZSM-5, facilitated by water-promoted formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, which decreases hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair of Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology, (001) plane exposure, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: the first, prepared by conventional impregnation, contained tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. Polymolybdates, dominant at >1.3 wt.% Mo loading, reduced dispersion and partially blocked zeolite channels. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase with tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The oxidation of benzene to phenol over Fe-ZSM-5 proceeds with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron and the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix in influencing catalyst efficiency. This process, using dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant, demonstrates the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, impacting active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation is critical, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, since 1982, offers an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane for benzene and carbonaceous deposit formation. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods significantly affect catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component's addition enhances catalyst activity or stability. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. The highest propene selectivity correlates with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors significantly influence the selectivity and conversion of alkanes. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, also affect the nature of active species and catalytic performance. The industrial importance of these catalysts lies in their ability to catalyze reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, crucial for the petrochemical industry, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo/HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, crucial for formaldehyde selectivity. The catalyst's structure and Mo(VI) oxidation state were confirmed by XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra. The reaction mechanism involves the interaction of methane with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond. The new catalyst outperforms impregnated catalysts in formaldehyde yield, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. This innovation is industrially significant for converting abundant methane reserves into valuable organic compounds.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are higher than experimental findings. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and using a support for vanadium oxide catalysts can reduce these barriers, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes that target BTX production. Zinc-containing ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Gallium or gallium-zinc ZSM-5 catalysts are favored due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These conversions are not fully selective, with light alkenes also forming as intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, like Zn/H-MFI zeolite, significantly influence efficiency. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselectivity are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit different kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as a preferred element in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical. Product stability, multifunctionality as a design criterion and mechanism explanation tool, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts play a critical role in propane activation, with the initial step involving dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites lead to propylene and dihydrogen formation, regenerating the active catalytic site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization, influenced by the partial pressure of reactants, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process's efficiency and the catalysts' industrial significance lie in their ability to convert light alkanes to aromatics, important petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and liquid fuel is a significant challenge and opportunity in catalysis science. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 zeolites is improved by metal cation addition, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling efficient conversion of methane to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc-modified catalysts exhibit strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts show weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in selectively converting alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, highlighting the importance of these factors in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments impact ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, and increasing aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking. This results in higher yields of desired products like propene and reduced by-products, contributing to industrial significance through enhanced reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation processes. Two routes of ethane activation were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves the rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation accepting the alkyl group, and activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports and Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization are pivotal. HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo's valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loadings boost reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic efficiency. Mo's interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction and second metal addition alter reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation remain contentious, hindering process development. Mo species' real status during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, with a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing multifunctional reactions including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and alkyl intermediate formation. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic performance. These factors are crucial for understanding the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane conversion and methanol selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the highest conversion at 31.51% observed in Fe-HZSM-5 with the largest iron content. Sodium form molecular sieves enhance selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Methanol selectivity peaks with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is optimal at 350°C, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The speed of methanol production and oxidation to carbon dioxide varies with the catalyst form, being faster with Fe-NaZSM-5 than Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, like silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loadings. Binary dispersed structures and additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but stronger MoO bonds lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of the feed, which alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The synthesis of maleic anhydride involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the availability of Vv. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio significantly impact selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's intercalation chemistry and the stability of its phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio, with a sweet spot at 1.1, influences selectivity and activity. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is enhanced by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The oxidation of C4 alkenes shows that increasing hydrocarbon concentration initially boosts maleic anhydride formation before promoting butadiene. Oxygen balances in the oxidation of but-1-ene and n-butane reveal that Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source, with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion, highlighting the difference in reactivity between hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations. Zn-alkyl species interact with zeolite acid sites, providing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy helps elucidate structure-activity relationships, vital for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces' reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, leading to structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to optimal metal center coordination, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by surface vanadia monolayer stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states and reactivity are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Br0nsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing multiple sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, particularly the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts are industrially significant for activating light alkanes into more valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest alkene yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions. As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form. The rate per V atom increases with surface density, even as V atoms become less available for catalysis. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar and show weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Propene formation is more favorable than ethene formation, suggesting higher stabilization energy for ethoxide species. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, decreasing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen enhances performance. A slight excess of phosphorus optimizes the balance between reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving catalyst stability. These factors are critical for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformations, as seen in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, with high loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking; the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity at lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This promising direction could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts facilitate methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion route. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts produces benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ion-supported HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ion effects, preparation, and treatment methods are studied, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr for activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. A second metal component's addition is explored for improved activity or stability. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are investigated, as is methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility play a critical role in selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde selectivity. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde a key component in organic synthesis. The first step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. The new grafted catalyst significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat lowered by considering a triplet state. These barriers, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia, may be reduced by complex reactions involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. The regioselectivity is attributed to two mechanisms involving dehydrogenation and heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those on H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative H/D exchange mechanism, highlighting the industrial significance of Zn/H-MFI in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation (Quote 1). The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix (Quote 2) and the stability of the product (Quote 3) are critical. Multifunctionality (Quote 4) aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though not sufficient alone. C-H bond activation (Quote 8) and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) also significantly impact efficiency. These factors are crucial for the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts is a promising approach for natural gas utilization, addressing a significant catalysis challenge. At 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, these catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling efficient conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is too active to release propene, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant as they convert inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via strong molecular adsorption on Zn2+ and weak adsorption on Ga+, leading to heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures for zinc and dissociative adsorption at high temperatures for gallium, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. The zinc mechanism produces Brnsted acid protons, while gallium forms gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for higher selectivity and longer catalyst life. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. FePO4 is used for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics, demonstrating the impact of specific catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition and structure affect alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Higher hydrogen diffusion rates in ZSM-5-Zn channels enhance BTX formation at increased space velocities. Aromatics formed over ZSM-5-Zn may undergo secondary demethylation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's aromatization mechanism generates hydrogen, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize dienes effectively at 500-600C. Catalysts with reoxidized Ga3+ are most active for aromatics production, not reduced Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and boosting propene formation. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving H2 selectivity and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. This efficiency is critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, contributing to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes of ethane activation are identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a significant challenge with potential to replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion greatly influence catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Studies show that metal loading and surface species dispersion are critical. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen highlights the importance of tungsten oxide dispersion for formaldehyde selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Key factors include the channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, Mo species' valence and location, and the loading of metals like Ru, Pt, and W, which enhance reactivity and stability. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and the introduction of Mo species changes the zeolite's acid sites. The real status of Mo species during the reaction is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support, stabilizing isolated centers for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites. The second abstraction can happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, not affecting overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen) impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting efficiency. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O substitution for O2 promoting a more reduced and selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, influences reactivity and selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for efficient catalyst design. However, maintaining structure with high V content and preventing V species withdrawal are challenges. In Mo-based catalysts, activity per Mo atom increases with surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, while MoOx domain size affects Mo-O bond strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, but enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting the nature of the products formed. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation of this intermediate. The first step is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second is controlled by the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst redox properties depend on preparation procedures, with the P:V ratio being a key parameter in determining selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits facile formation and interconversion of crystalline phases, influenced by synthesis variables such as solvent use. The P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure significantly impact the reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, the P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is crucial, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. The PVO system shows rich intercalation chemistry, with different phases affecting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, forming Zn alkyl species that interact with Brnsted acid sites for dehydrogenation and H/D exchange. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by zeolite Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy is essential for elucidating structure-activity relationships, as highlighted by studies on vanadium oxides and zeolites. In zeolites, the reactivity of confined spaces is governed by the coordination environment of extraframework metal species, driving oligomerization and the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, as evidenced by enhanced dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase affect the molecular structure and reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the reactant molecule, with reactions requiring multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic oxides, can retard the reduction of surface vanadia species and influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, although the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics make them industrially significant for hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is shown by the sample with the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in processes like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating the formation of reactive gallium species, decreasing reaction energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and reduction of V5+ are affected by preparation techniques. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and certain additives prevent overoxidation. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Catalyst conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. The first, prepared by conventional impregnation, contained tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) led to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. The second series, prepared with aqueous ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, the role of iron, and the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix. This process holds promise for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to benzene and naphthalene via dehydrocondensation on transition metal-supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation is critical, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been widely studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Non-oxidative conditions allow methane to benzene conversion in flow reactors. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. A second metal component's addition boosts activity. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation method, support, promotors, and conditions, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic process, benefits from high dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. The introduction of Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation forms active species, increasing acidity in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, contribute to the acidity, crucial for efficiency. The strength and density of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, affect selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating the catalyst's structure. XRD spectra show the absence of MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation methods. The high CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, offers improved formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires vanadium oxide catalyst support, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation, central to Oleflex and similar processes, transforms light gases into aromatics, particularly BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion to aromatics isn't fully selective, yielding light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation and favoring hydrogen removal in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix being critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These elements are key to the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts play a critical role in propane activation, where the initial step involves dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc species and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active catalytic site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization, enhancing aromatization activity. The efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on these catalysts follow a carbenium ion mechanism, crucial for industrial applications due to high selectivity and stability. These factors highlight the significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the latter offering easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is too active for propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including modified zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 reveals distinct mechanisms: zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation produces Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride without Brnsted acids. These differences affect hydrocarbon conversion efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes converting alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H has rate-controlled dehydrogenation, while ZSM-5-Zn exhibits quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity over ZSM-5-Zn depletes local hydrogen, favoring BTX formation. Aromatics formed over ZSM-5-Zn may result from secondary demethylation reactions. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer, generating paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts are as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+, stable under ethane dehydrogenation conditions. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests show pretreatment effects on catalyst performance. Aromatics yields are enhanced by small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H2 formation through dehydrogenation steps, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving propene formation and reducing cracking products. This boosts aromatic turnover rates and decreases cracking, contributing to industrial significance by increasing desired product yields and reducing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, specifically in dehydrogenation processes. Two distinct activation routes were identified for ethane dehydrogenation: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with the ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations acting as alkyl group acceptors. Computed activation energies for the three steps in the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Metal loading influences the dispersion of surface species, affecting formaldehyde selectivity. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, affecting aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance catalyst reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key to understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite properties. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction by reactive terminal oxo species, facilitates alkane transformations. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, catalyze alkane-to-alkene and alkane-to-aromatic conversions, with metalalkyl intermediates playing a key role. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. The mechanisms involve complex steps, including carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates, with direct methane conversion into ethylene being a debated topic.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is a critical step. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, with vanadyl sites playing a crucial role in the rate-determining step. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites, without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites on bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, underscoring the importance of catalyst structure in reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to further oxidation. These findings highlight the role of catalyst composition and reaction conditions in controlling alkane transformation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Key factors include metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, influences selectivity and combustion rates. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting ODH performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and ODH activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and affecting CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the catalyst's oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and its reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation of this intermediate are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its variable crystalline phases, is influenced by synthesis variables like solvent type and P:V ratio, affecting catalytic performance and reaction mechanism understanding. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is key for selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing maleic anhydride selectivity but decreasing specific activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxides dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which further react to form partial oxidation products. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects, with oxygen balances showing the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source in both but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in the but-1-ene case.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins, suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane adsorption. For high Zn content zeolites, Zn alkyl species form at small ZnO clusters. Dissociative adsorption leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups, with protonation by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitating H/D exchange. Zn species influence CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, enhancing aromatization ability. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites promotes alkane dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible under hydration-dehydration processes. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Oxidation reactions needing one site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, while those requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives, like acidic and basic ones, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, affecting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical factors. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, yielding valuable products like aromatics and isomers. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, with ethene and propene formation rates peaking at intermediate densities. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed kinetic analysis and structural characterization of vanadia/alumina samples revealed that the local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Persistent controversies in previous studies were attributed to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, along with temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, such as light alkane aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly the involvement of extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impacts alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the reaction energy for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over the Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and the basic extraframework oxygen atom, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere and the presence of certain promoters enhance performance. A slight excess of phosphorus in the catalyst composition aids in avoiding V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. These factors are crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species, with the latter predominant at high Mo loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts that had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts in the selective oxidation of aromatics, exemplified by the oxidation of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, and the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix. This highlights the potential for new technologies in organic synthesis through alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions enhancing activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed, showing enhanced catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 zeolite, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species after calcination. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde, facilitated by the catalyst, is scientifically and industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, caused by interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, like the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Other barriers, particularly for propane adsorption, may require the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkane conversion, particularly methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, is a significant area of research. Higher alkanes can undergo conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes like Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming, which use catalysts such as ZSM-5 to convert light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. While not completely selective, aromatization also produces light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences the regioselective H/D exchange of propane through incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix and multifunctionality, which aids in catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms, are crucial. C-H bond activation type, acidity, and basicity also impact efficiency. Product stability and multifunctionality alone are insufficient, highlighting the complexity of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity, promoting methane activation and increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, polarizing and heterolytically dissociating ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity of metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane to aromatics conversion, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ up to the limit of anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium enhance aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by overcoming limitations in dehydrogenation reactions, which are rate-determining steps in forming C6 aromatics. These species increase propane conversion rates, facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption, and promote deuterium incorporation, improving the efficiency of hydrogen management. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-products, contributing to industrial significance by enhancing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. For ethane dehydrogenation, two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl route, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance performance. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo species and zeolite acidity affecting catalytic activity. Select metal loadings boost reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic outcomes. The Mo species' role and status during reactions are crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities, stabilizing isolated centers over larger crystallites. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation via subsequent H-abstraction on adjacent VO species. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially relevant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity to olefins peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at lower V loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings, with higher activity from octahedral V5+ species but greater selectivity from tetrahedral V5+. Acid site nature changes with vanadium loading, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial in both industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form of Fe-ZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also quickens its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to the hydrogen form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    