Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is also affected by the support type, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives like alkali and alkaline earth metals decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at specific surface densities. The size of MoOx domains influences Mo O strength, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali dopants modify MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, influencing selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's complexity, with various crystalline phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. The P:V ratio affects crystallinity and defect structure, impacting catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, a mechanism subject to debate. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn-modified zeolites effectively enhance alkane conversion to aromatics, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory aiding in the development of structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination of Ga3+ promotes H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface vanadia sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their industrial value lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. The highest alkene yield is achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. Previous studies on the effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have yielded inconsistent results due to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and organic medium precursors enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, the latter dominant at high molybdenum loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts' higher selectivity despite lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion rates. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant used. This process offers promising new technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal-supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation is critical, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing its activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component boosts activity. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation method, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases with Ga, Fe, and Zn, crucial for alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility play a critical role in selectivity and conversion of alkanes, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including MoO2(acac)2 grafted onto HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly enhance alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. This new catalyst improves methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, caused by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields highly dispersed MoO42species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and XRD confirm molybdenum(VI) species presence and high dispersion, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on zeolite surfaces contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are notably higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. These findings suggest that complex reactions, such as the concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination, or the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, could reduce these barriers, enhancing the efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing transformation without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Aromatization isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to methyl group regioselectivity. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element in selective oxidation of alkanes is highlighted [1], with the isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix being critical [2]. Product stability [3], multifunctionality [4]-[7], the type of C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9] are key factors in these processes. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation [5]-[6], though not solely sufficient [7]. These elements are crucial for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts' industrial significance lies in converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and fuels, using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising approach for natural gas utilization. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on modified ZSM-5 is facilitated by a carbenium ion mechanism. Reaction conditions, including temperature and partial pressure of methane, influence the efficiency of these processes. The industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations is underscored by their ability to convert methane to benzene with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging O atoms can activate the CH bond, but propene production is easier at the bridging O site due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an efficient catalyst as the terminal O is too active to release propene. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Ethane activation over these catalysts proceeds via two mechanisms: strong adsorption by Zn2+ and O sites leads to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while weak adsorption on Ga+ results in ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. The zinc case forms Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation, contrasting with gallium dihydride species in the gallium case, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate the impact of these factors on alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates form at lower densities on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization are key steps in the mechanism, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-H's radical-chain reaction initiation is speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate detectable radical species. Different aromatization mechanisms explain the behavior contrast between the catalysts. ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen during aromatization, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within the zeolite, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of chemical conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. The dehydrogenation of propane to form C6 aromatics is limited by irreversible reactions, but metal species facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2). Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. This selective H-atom removal improves efficiency and selectivity, boosting propene formation and reducing by-products. The recombinative desorption of H-atoms contributes to high H2 selectivity, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol being a promising route. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Research on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen reveals formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial, affecting acid sites and catalytic activity. Metal loading impacts reactivity and stability, with certain metals improving performance. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature affect catalyst efficiency. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic performance. Methane activation remains a debated topic, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder understanding and process development. The real status of Mo species during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization reactions. M-zeolites, containing Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental to these transformations. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica are modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs primarily on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. The Si/Fe ratio and catalyst form (sodium or hydrogen) influence methane conversion and selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced during steady-state alkane oxidation. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene. Catalysts supported on silica show higher selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. The isolation of active sites is crucial for efficient catalyst design, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher Mo surface density, reaching a maximum at 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting enhanced surface Mo species reactivity. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance. Basic oxides inhibit initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps and increasing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, affected by feed redox properties, determines product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, and temperature. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalysts with variable V(IV)/V(V) ratios show optimal performance at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio affects selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface play a critical role in controlling selectivity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's interconversion of V(IV) and V(V) phases influences catalytic performance. The active phase, vanadyl pyrophosphate, is crucial for n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Oxygen balances in C4 hydrocarbon oxidation reveal the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source, highlighting differences in reactivity and interaction between alkenes and alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, involving metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Ga or Zn facilitate H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin dehydrocyclization yields aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species ease CH bond breaking and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces is studied through spectroscopy and theory, leading to structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species in high-silica zeolites are influenced by coordination environment and charge compensation. Binuclear gallium-oxo species exhibit significant reactivity for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring the longevity of industrial catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are studied using various spectroscopies and are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is related to their dehydrated state, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Spectroscopic results show distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, evolving into poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites at higher densities. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed for the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation to form reactive GaO+ ions, is crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect morphology, reducibility, and reoxidizability. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were studied in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking; the other, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts' lower conversion and higher selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. In the oxidation of benzene to phenol, nearly 100% selectivity is achieved at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the efficiency influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This progress in hydroxylation of aromatics suggests new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal ions' influence on catalysts has been investigated, with activity following Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is efficient for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been examined, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation method, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including those with supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, resulting in highly dispersed MoO42species. This catalyst exhibits enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, with methane as the primary component. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide supported phase. The grafting process avoids the presence of water, yielding isolated oxo species of molybdenum in oxidation state VI, which greatly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, which are somewhat lowered by considering a triplet state. Barriers on the reaction pathway are significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia, suggesting the need for more complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, or the involvement of a support to reduce other barriers, such as propane adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes in processes like catalytic dehydrogenation, which is central to Oleflex-like methods. These convert light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts such as ZSM-5. Conversion isn't selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, influences alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation by favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms are: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and abstraction of deuteride ion from another propane molecule, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium, as a preferred element, enhances selective oxidation of alkanes, while its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, and the type of C-H bond activation are key factors. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and aids in understanding reaction mechanisms, though it's not solely sufficient. Acidity and basicity also play significant roles. These elements collectively influence the efficiency and industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can further aromatize. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, with improved performance at higher methane partial pressures. The catalytic activity is boosted by metal cation addition, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling selective and stable conversion of methane to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of these processes. For instance, DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the bridging O site facilitates easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation with propene release, as single-crystal V2O5(001) is too active, hindering propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms of ethane activation. Zinc-modified catalysts form acid-base pairs, leading to strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. The zinc case results in Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation, contrasting with gallium's formation of gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions involving dehydrogenation, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. Specific catalysts, such as FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, demonstrate that pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition significantly impact efficiency and selectivity. These factors are crucial for optimizing industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary propene oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed Ga3+ form, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio. Pretreatments influence catalyst performance, and small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium enhance aromatics yields. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These metals facilitate hydrogen disposal by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption to form H2, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, particularly in forming propene without cracking products. This results in higher yields of desired aromatics and reduced by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by enhancing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Zn-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene in Zn-exchanged zeolites follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step of ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves the rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, and the computed activation energies are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for their ability to enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions enhance efficiency. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance. Certain metals' loading boosts reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation's mechanism remains debated. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status and role in methane dehydro-aromatization are vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene via sequential H-abstraction on adjacent VO sites. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics through multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral species but greater selectivity from tetrahedral ones. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brnsted at high vanadium loadings, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is fundamental to these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites for the first step and can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second step. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity, and prolonged contact time decreases methanol concentration due to further oxidation. Fe-ZSM-5's structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The efficiency of these catalysts is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. In oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate sizes for optimal surface VOx species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation steps, thus increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency and selectivity of these processes are influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed affect the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by the rate of Vw reduction and the amount of Vv available. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The preparation procedures of catalysts determine their redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, significantly impacts the reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the active site's nature, the P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. This leads to alkane dehydrogenation and the formation of aromatics, demonstrating Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit reactivity toward CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by net pH and oxide support properties, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be assessed using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is influenced by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives influence selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. Optimizing these factors enhances yield and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods further extend their operational life, improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is seen in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, and propene formation is eight times faster than ethene at 663 K. Alkene selectivity increases with temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, particularly in light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly affects alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; the P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; and additives, preventing overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. These factors are critical for selective paraffin activation in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly affect alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. The first, prepared by conventional impregnation, resulted in tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. Polymolybdates, predominant at high Mo loadings, decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. The second series, prepared with ammonia washing, featured well-dispersed monomeric species, showing lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. The conversion of benzene to phenol over Fe-ZSM-5 proceeds with high selectivity, demonstrating the impact of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties on catalyst efficiency. This highlights the potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane to higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion relies on synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts. Activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, and environmental conditions, vary with vanadium loadings: isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages, VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K in concentrated feeds. Studies focus on high-temperature, high-loading vanadium oxide species, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation forms active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors are crucial for the efficiency of alkane transformations. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including those with supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is crucial due to the vast natural gas reserves, primarily methane, which can be converted into methanol or formaldehyde, valuable for liquid fuels and organic synthesis. The activation mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. The catalyst's efficiency is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting yields highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XRD and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, while XPS analysis indicates the oxidation state of molybdenum. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation, highlights the catalyst's unique structure. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with higher surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leading to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, which are significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering more complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers might require a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to more valuable products like alkenes and aromatics, especially BTX, through catalytic processes. Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, are pivotal in dehydrogenation and aromatization reactions. While conversion isn't completely selective, with alkenes forming alongside aromatics, Zn-ZSM-5 improves BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane transformations. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation of propene by acidic OH groups and deuteride abstraction from another propane molecule; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption of propane to form Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zeolite modification with Zn changes the exchange mechanism, leading to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored in selective alkane oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and mechanism explainer, yet it's insufficient alone. Product stability, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity also impact efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes and cyclizes over acidic sites, with aromatization activity enhanced by Zn. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts convert light alkanes to aromatics, vital petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to benzene using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K demonstrates high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations' efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging O atoms, with propene production easier at bridging O due to weaker binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is not ideal due to the terminal O's overactivity. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane polarizability, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium forms gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selectively converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition. These factors are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, affecting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. Cracking to C1-C2 products occurs concurrently. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing chemical conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and increasing propene formation. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations. The addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels boosts aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enhancing reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the initial aromatization step, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The zinc cation facilitates alkyl group rupture, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, vital for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. Studies show formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are critical. The Mo-zeolite interaction and HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperatures affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization and the alteration of zeolite acid sites are central to understanding reaction pathways. The mode of methane activation remains a contentious topic, with carbonaceous deposits posing a major challenge. Understanding Mo species' real status during reactions is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica is the ideal support, enhancing selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation products is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species dominate at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, prevalent at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites' nature and number also vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, impacting propene formation rates. Vanadia sites' activity increases when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. The catalyst with the lowest iron content achieves the highest selectivity for methane to methanol oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting propylene combustion, thus enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Vanadium's valence state change is governed by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, but decreases specific activity. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion is influenced by surface oxygen concentration, supporting a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformation efficiency through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing catalysis structure-activity relationships. Extraframework gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit reactivity governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Oligomerization of GaO+ species forms multinuclear oxygenated gallium, driving reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation, with H2 desorption promoted by decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination. Hydrogenation can decompose clusters via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the nature of the oxide support. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are extensively studied using spectroscopy. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports. The stability of V(5) species on silica may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with Lewis acid sites present on oxide supports and both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on unsupported V2O5. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds do, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact the efficiency of processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing these catalysts and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods further boost their operational life and application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Selectivity for ethane is independent of surface density, while for propane, it increases slightly with density. High temperatures and isolated monovanadate species maximize alkene yields, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is seen in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, around 115 ± 20 kJ/mol. Propene formation is faster, suggesting higher stabilization energy for ethoxide species. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, particularly Ga+ species in ZSM-5, significantly affects efficiency. Oxidation by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates hydrogen recombination by promoting hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing reaction energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, highlighting the role of extraframework oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, affecting morphology and V5+ reduction (Quote 1); P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207 (Quote 10); morphology impacts oxidizability; and additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation (Quote 15). A slight phosphorus excess (P/V=1.05) optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity (Quotes 22-25). Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, critical for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other by ammonia washing, resulting in a well-dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show specificity for formaldehyde production, despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in efficiency. These findings suggest potential for new organic synthesis technologies, despite a lack of detailed literature on catalyst mechanisms in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including methane aromatization to benzene and naphthalene. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between transition metals and zeolite supports, impacting reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting research into oxygen-free processes to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Catalysts modified with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu show enhanced activity or stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane, forming benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support, promotors, and conditions, vary with vanadium loadings, featuring isolated/polymerized VO4 at lower and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, exothermic with max temperatures around 873 K, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures. The highest propene selectivity correlates with dispersed isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. AlVO4's portion increases with vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, play a critical role in selectivity and conversion under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits enhanced activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, featuring highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to the vast natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with the weakening of the CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide supported phase. The grafting process avoids water, yielding isolated MoO42species, which are crucial for the catalyst's specific activity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of these species, while XRD spectra show high dispersion without MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, and the high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leads to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires vanadium oxide catalyst support, highlighting the importance of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing conversion without co-reactants. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation and transformation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal from propane. Two mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal. Vanadium, as the preferred element, facilitates selective oxidation (Quote 1). Its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is essential (Quote 2). Product stability (Quote 3), multifunctionality (Quote 4), which serves as a design criterion and mechanism explanation (Quotes 5-7), C-H bond activation (Quote 8), and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) are critical for efficiency. These factors are crucial for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically for methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes due to their high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition and structure significantly influence the efficiency of these processes. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption by acid-base pairs, whereas gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species. These differences crucially affect hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These findings elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions impact alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to higher BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, favoring aromatization. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, especially over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer, generating paraffins. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting propene formation. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by improving reaction rates and selectivities. The selective removal of H-atoms by recombinative desorption also aids in extracting valuable H2 from light alkanes with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite revealed two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation mechanism is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite support is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Certain metal loadings improve reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures affect catalyst performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic activity. The Mo species' role and real status during reactions are crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory development. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion or unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion to ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, offer higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance catalytic activity. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects selectivity and activity, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is a critical step in these processes. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. The Si/Fe ratio and catalyst form (sodium or hydrogen) affect conversion and selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9, 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11, 12). The speed of methanol production and oxidation varies with the catalyst form (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions impacting efficiency. The degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties affect performance. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity in ethane ODH is influenced by the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting ODH performance; alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density and domain size impacting ODH rates and activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, thus increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency and mechanisms of these transformations are influenced by the catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed affect the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is dependent on the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate of the catalyst, and the reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are key. The first step of oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and the second step of further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, respectively. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation procedures determine redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation, with vanadyl pyrophosphate identified as the active phase. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface differ, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins, suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating dehydrogenation and aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions impacting efficiency. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, essential for catalytic optimization. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to coordination optimization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are reactive in heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by factors like monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial oxidation catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, which depends on the surface point of zero charge of the oxide support and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is influenced by the predominant species, the extent of reduction, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly affect the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the same thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species are formed. The molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species is unaffected by the long-range order of the oxide substrate. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, and the number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, and acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their effect appears to be reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing crucial roles. These catalysts activate light alkanes into more valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impact rates and selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at high temperatures, consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 is enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation, forming reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit varied efficiency based on their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species; the other, by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This promising direction could lead to new efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Enhancements through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition improve activity or stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 facilitates methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and concentrated feeds, achieving maximum temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is observed with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The process involves reacting the complex with zeolite surface OH groups, avoiding water to obtain isolated MoO42species with high dispersion. This method yields a Mo(VI) surface species, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis, which improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, significantly larger than experimental values for supported vanadia. These barriers may be reduced by considering complex reactions, such as the concerted reaction involving oxygen adsorption during water elimination. The necessity of a support for vanadium oxide to lower barriers like propane adsorption highlights the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar. Zinc-containing ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Gallium or gallium-zinc ZSM-5 catalysts are favored due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These conversions, including oxidative dehydrogenation, are pivotal for transforming light gases into more valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element for selective oxidation of alkanes is crucial, as is the isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix. Product stability, multifunctionality, which serves as a criterion in catalyst design and a tool to explain reaction mechanisms, and the type of C-H bond activation are key factors. Additionally, acidity and basicity play significant roles. These elements contribute to the industrial significance of these processes by enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for converting methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. The incorporation of Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, and the yield of benzene rises with increased methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These factors, including the catalyst's composition and structure, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, making them industrially significant for natural gas utilization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The activation of propane's CH bond by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) surfaces reveals that both radical and oxo-insertion pathways are possible, with the latter being more favorable at bridging O sites due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an efficient catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct mechanisms: zinc-modified catalysts exhibit strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium-modified catalysts show weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation occurring at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. The zinc case results in Brnsted acid proton formation, whereas gallium leads to gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly impact hydrocarbon conversions involving dehydrogenation, affecting reaction efficiency and selectivity. The industrial significance of these catalysts lies in their ability to selectively convert alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development has advanced methane conversion processes, with a focus on higher selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for optimizing catalytic performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are support-independent. These insights elucidate how catalyst composition, structure, and conditions affect alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn channels, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 allows gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments influence ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance. Achieving high aromatics yields often requires adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. These species facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking and boosting propene formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity in aromatization while reducing cracking. This results in higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in alkane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc cations accepting the alkyl group. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is a major challenge. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising alternative to the conventional three-step process. The dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by Banares et al. with a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ion interactions with zeolite supports and Mo species' role in HZSM-5 are crucial. Certain metals like Ru and Pt improve reactivity and stability, while V and Li have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction affect catalytic behavior. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' real status during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, terminal oxo species of VV surface sites are most reactive, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via complex mechanisms involving metalalkyl intermediates. They catalyze alkylation reactions and direct aromatization of methane. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ -Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral but greater selectivity from tetrahedral V5+ species. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites, and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on the bulk surface are more active than supported monomers, enhancing propene formation rates over isopropyl alcohol.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity. Reaction conditions, including temperature and contact time, critically affect the balance between methanol production and its further oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state under reaction conditions, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, with optimal rates per vanadium atom on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and using N2O instead of O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-SiO2. Catalysts supported on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for catalyst design. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of acid and redox sites boosts ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state change is governed by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperature. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system forms various V(IV) and V(V) phases, influenced by synthesis variables like solvent use and P:V ratio. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratio (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites, are pivotal in converting light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing this conversion is a subject of ongoing debate. Metal species facilitate alkane dehydrogenation, while acid sites promote olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Ga or Zn act as portholes, catalyzing H atom desorption as dihydrogen, shifting the equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn species significantly enhance H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves its adsorption on Zn oxide sites inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites. The formation of Zn-alkyl species on high Zn-content zeolites accelerates alkane conversion to aromatics. Zn and Brnsted sites synergistically enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and subsequent aromatization steps.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces impact reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing species in high-silica zeolites, like multinuclear oxygenated gallium, are crucial for catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Stable tetrahedral coordination of Ga3+ promotes H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites via water desorption. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the catalyst's performance. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports influence the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species minimally. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, with effects varying by reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly impact the efficiency of processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is achieved with low surface density catalysts at high temperatures. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed kinetic analysis and structural characterization reveal the local structure's impact on ODH rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times need high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Persistent controversies in previous studies are attributed to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The activity of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 increases upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forming reactive GaO+ ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5 over HZSM-5. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen-containing atmospheres, along with certain additives, enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, crucial for selective paraffin activation in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformations, as seen in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric Mo(VI) and polymolybdate species, with higher Mo loading causing decreased dispersion and channel blocking. The second series, treated with ammonia, had well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower conversion but higher selectivity, highlighting monomeric species' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of benzene to phenol at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant dinitrogen monoxide. This highlights the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis through selective oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, and the role of surface oxygen species in CH bond splitting. Oxygen's use in many methane conversion processes leads to deep oxidation, prompting researchers to develop methods for higher hydrocarbon formation without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts for higher hydrocarbon transformation is documented. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Surface vanadium oxide species' structure and catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation method, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures and loadings, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, such as (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane transformations. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields. The strength and density of acid sites, metal species stability, and reducibility play a critical role in selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst's preparation involves washing, drying, and calcining to yield [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde, key in fuel and organic synthesis, is scientifically and industrially relevant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields isolated MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS analysis confirms highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, while XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts correlates with residual acid sites. The new catalyst's structure and composition offer potential for efficient catalysis, combining properties of homogeneous and heterogeneous systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high barriers for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium oxide, ranging 45-80 kcal/mol above reactant energy, significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and more complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure and conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, central to Oleflex-like processes, transforms light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, the composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, like Zn/H-MFI zeolite, significantly impact efficiency and mechanisms. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation by favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange in propane are: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. The kinetic parameters for H/D exchange on Zn/H-MFI differ from those on H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting a unique mechanism for propane on Zn/H-MFI.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are critical for efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors underpin the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through initial dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions. The addition of Mo or Zn enhances catalytic activity and selectivity, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for desired chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on single-crystal V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, with the latter facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an efficient catalyst as the terminal O is too active for propene release. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium exhibits weak adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species. These differences crucially affect hydrocarbon conversions, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples for producing CH3OH, HCHO, and converting methane to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization, is the main conversion mechanism. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. The BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). The initiation of radical-chain reactions on ZSM-5-H remains speculative, but electron transfer processes and radical species generation on high silica zeolites are known. Different aromatization mechanisms on ZSM-5-Zn generate hydrogen, contrasting with the paraffin-generating hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts mimic physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 in redox behavior and activity. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments influence ethane dehydrogenation performance. Rhenium, platinum, or rhodium additions boost aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by increasing conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increase aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, which is crucial for industrial processes. Their ability to increase propene formation and selectively remove H-atoms contributes to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism begins with ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. The Mo-zeolite interaction and Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization are pivotal. Metal loading, especially Mo and transition metals, enhances reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species' status and its interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite are essential for understanding methane activation and developing related theories.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion at lower temperatures and unselective reactions at higher temperatures. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. H-abstraction is the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation via subsequent H-abstraction on adjacent VO species. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, are industrially significant for transforming alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyzing alkylation reactions, and directly aromatizing methane. Ga-zeolites act as multifunctional catalysts, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, including the coaromatization of methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those containing Mo or Zn, can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchanged zeolites catalyze the direct oxidation of methane into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V loading, also affect efficiency. These factors are crucial for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides on silica and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on the bulk surface are more active than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations. Spherulitic aggregates and XRD patterns confirm Fe(III) framework incorporation. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while sodium forms enhance selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with low iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but lowers methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct patterns in methanol and carbon dioxide production rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    