Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, and rates per vanadium atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The basicity of the support affects selectivity, with basic metal oxides improving propylene desorption. VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane ODH rates per molybdenum atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. The efficiency and selectivity are influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed affect the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, determined by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperature, is pivotal. A two-step mechanism for maleic anhydride synthesis from alkanes or alkenes involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the availability of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the formation rate of vanadium(V). The preparation procedures, particularly the P:V ratio, significantly impact redox properties and performance, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, forming aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming to enhance coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation by cleaving CH bonds. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as confirmed by experiments with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species can reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reactive environments, and oxidation states and reactivity are sensitive to hydrocarbon environments, with V(5+) species predominant. The molecular structure is unaffected by preparation methods or oxide support phase. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, with a decrease in these sites and an increase in Br0nsted acid sites upon vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enabling light alkane activation under mild conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are critical in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, affecting efficiency and selectivity. Optimizing these factors and employing novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, enhancing catalyst life and industrial application, leading to higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts optimize alkane transformations, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, sharing similar activation energies. For maximum alkene yields, catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, are ideal. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, with initial alkene selectivity enhanced by monovanadate structures at low densities. Increasing surface density leads to poly-vanadate formation and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reactivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia densities, optimizing olefin yields on isolated monovanadate catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga/ZSM-5 activity is boosted by nitrous oxide oxidation, forming reactive GaO+ ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, with a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhancing performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation with ammonia washing, influence methane to formaldehyde conversion. High molybdenum loading leads to polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, monomeric species offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with near 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, showcasing their potential in organic synthesis. The efficiency in these processes is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant's features.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are key in catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics. Enhancements in activity are achieved by incorporating Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification improves efficiency. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Transition metal ions, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity, significantly impact catalysts. Methane aromatization to benzene is facilitated by PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Surface oxygen interaction is crucial for CH bond splitting. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide species' formation on alumina surfaces is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated/polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K or higher. The highest propene selectivity is linked to the dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings result in a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, vital for alkane conversion, increases from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization. The introduction of metals affects catalytic activity and selectivity by forming strong Lewis acid sites and regenerating Brnsted acid sites, while reaction conditions influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, the catalyst yields [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species after washing, drying, and calcination. Methane's conversion into methanol and formaldehyde, key in industrial processes due to natural gas reserves, is initiated by the CH bond's weakness caused by zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV and XPS analysis confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are notably reduced by support in vanadia, underscoring the catalyst structure's role in alkane transformations. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, through catalytic dehydrogenation using processes like Oleflex, which rely on ZSM-5 catalysts. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen, while Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, demonstrating the impact of metal-based catalysts on alkane transformation efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations, acting as strong Lewis sites. This facilitates alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal in propane's methyl groups via reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption or dehydrogenation followed by protonation. Distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia highlight its industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium's enhanced role in a quasi-inert matrix boosting efficiency. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms but is not solely sufficient. These elements are fundamental to the industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen through dehydrogenation. Propylene can undergo further reactions, influenced by pressure-dependent efficiency favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and increases benzene yield, especially as methane partial pressure rises. The enhanced catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization on modified ZSM-5 is attributed to the structure and metal cation addition. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their structure, notably the roles of terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001), influences CH bond activation. Propene production is favored at the bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding, while the overly active terminal O hinders propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation pathways. Zinc forms acid-base pairs with oxygen, polarizing ethane for heterolytic dissociation, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium forms dihydride species without such protons, affecting dehydrogenation selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, location, and feed composition. Enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion is a significant industrial challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and its surface density influence catalytic behavior. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and 60-70% BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity marginally increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly influence aromatization activity, with reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 being as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. Reoxidized catalysts, however, are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization and stable under reaction conditions, though it can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as per quotes [2] and [5]. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, crucial for propene formation and aromatization without concurrent cracking, as highlighted in quotes [6] and [9]. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species catalyze H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2), which limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates on H-ZSM5, as noted in quote [3]. These species increase aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, as mentioned in quotes [7] and [8].", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc facilitates CH bond rupture, with computed activation energies highlighting significant differences. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier, impacting selectivity towards aromatization in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising alternative. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, highlighting tailored metal-based catalysts' potential in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal, altering acid sites and impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. The mode of methane activation and Mo species' role during the reaction are essential for advancing methane chemistry theories. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder process development, posing a major obstacle for a better understanding of the reaction and for process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, featuring isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on silica at 500 C via the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction. Metal-exchanged zeolites, including Ga-, Zn-, Mo-, and Fe-zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, directly converting methane to benzene and H2, and oxidizing methane to methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for selectivity. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species at lower loads offer superior selectivity compared to octahedral species at higher loads. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is crucial. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, highlighting the importance of catalyst composition and structure in enhancing reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with methane conversion and selectivity influenced by the Si/Fe ratio, catalyst form, temperature, and contact time. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, with Fe(III) in framework sites, is critical for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Supports like silica, alumina, and titania influence selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives, including alkali and alkaline earth metals, modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps, and enhancing propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, as demonstrated by the VOx-SBA-15 system, which provides a high concentration of accessible, structurally well-defined active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with the feed's redox properties influencing the catalyst's surface oxidation state. The conversion to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. Excessive Vv promotes carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio significantly impact redox properties and catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading boosts selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity declines. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, boosting reaction rates and lowering activation energies. This direct influence of Zn on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites enhances alkane conversion to aromatics, demonstrating the synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in boosting aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity through extraframework metal species coordination. GaO+ forms multinuclear oxygenated gallium species in microporous spaces. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit high reactivity for heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as seen with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are essential for understanding their reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase impact the molecular structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia and phosphate, can enhance or retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting the TOF and selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by active site nature, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes' conversion into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts' efficiency for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by surface density and structure. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios, with smaller values leading to higher alkene selectivity at all conversion levels.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide forms GaO+ ions, which are stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and high-temperature activation. Morphology, low-temperature oxygen treatment, and surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups during conditioning are critical. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology impacts oxidizability. Specific additives and low-temperature treatment in oxygen affect performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by Mo loading and species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) results in predominant polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but decreasing formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts with lower methane conversion offer higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the selective oxidation of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, demonstrating the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in enhancing the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation processes, and highlighting their potential in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a pivotal strategy in methane conversion. Catalyst activity is enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu, and zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Surface oxygen species interaction is key in CH bond splitting in methane. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 effective at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalyst properties, influenced by preparation, support, promotors, and environment, dictate the formation of VO4 units at lower and VO6 octahedra at higher vanadium loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, reaching 873 K, benefits from high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 show low activity, while the portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn enhance acidity in HZSM-5, with the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, critical for catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The grafting reaction, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, improving formaldehyde yield. This innovation is industrially significant for converting methane to methanol or formaldehyde, given vast natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation, confirms successful grafting.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding those for supported vanadia. Support involvement and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, lower these barriers, critical for enhancing industrial process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation, using ZSM-5 catalysts, converts light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification boosts regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, crucial in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, excel with vanadium's role and isolated ion stability. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in design and mechanism understanding, yet isn't solely sufficient.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene can oligomerize, and dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate high efficiency in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with excellent activity and selectivity. The incorporation of Mo or Zn significantly boosts methane activation, leading to increased benzene yield as methane partial pressure rises. This highlights the critical role of metal cations in enhancing catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. The excessive activity of the terminal O hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a catalyst that balances CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation paths in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. In contrast, gallium results in weak ethane adsorption, with ethyl and hydride fragments forming at high temperatures, leading to gallium dihydride species. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, exemplified by FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are governed by pretreatment, reaction temperature, metal state, location, and feed composition. Ongoing efforts aim to boost selectivity and longevity, addressing the need for more effective catalysts in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn exhibits quasi-equilibrium dehydrogenation, unlike ZSM-5-H's rate-controlled process. Higher space velocity leads to increased BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H uses hydride transfer, generating paraffins. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with dispersion and oxidation state affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for dehydrogenation. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, thus increasing propene formation and reducing by-product formation. This boosts efficiency and selectivity, critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and less favorable carbenium activation due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism. These catalysts enhance selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being a studied alternative to the conventional process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are critical. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite support and Mo species' role are pivotal for catalytic performance. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Methane activation mode is debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates for dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% for selectivity to olefins. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, are key in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction initiates at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, crucial for propene formation. Propene production is faster after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the highest conversion (31.51%) achieved using Fe-HZSM-5 with the largest iron content. The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates, and optimal selectivity for methane to methanol (about 74%) is attained with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct rates for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is governed by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state under reaction conditions. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal vanadium atom reactivity. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and substituting N2O for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic performance is support-dependent, with vanadia-silica catalysts showing superior selectivity over alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but enhance propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts' activity is Mo surface density-dependent, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, transform alkanes through mechanisms involving redox properties. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, impacting selectivity to maleic anhydride. Catalyst preparation influences redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding reaction mechanisms. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation, while higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, facilitating alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species precedes interaction with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by enhancing alkane conversion towards aromatics. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability under various environments ensures long catalyst life (Quote 5). The molecular structure of surface vanadia species is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, determined by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The molecular structures of reduced surface vanadia species can be studied using various spectroscopic methods. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of the V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The specific oxide support phase influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species, but not the long-range order of the oxide substrate (Quote 19). Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support can dramatically affect the TOF (Quote 32). The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency hinges on active site characteristics, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivity. Innovative regeneration techniques mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst lifespan and enhancing industrial applicability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkene yields in oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. Propene formation rates are notably higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, maximize alkene yields. Alkene selectivity increases with higher temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, as observed in initial reactions for both ethane and propane. [2] Propene formation is eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature. [5] The highest alkene yields are obtained with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at temperatures below 800 K. [13] Ethene and propene formation rates per V atom peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. [16] High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. [35] Alkene selectivity improves with increasing reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Upon oxidation, Ga/ZSM-5 forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, significantly increasing hydrogen formation. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the energy required for hydrogen recombination. The Ga2O2 dimer facilitates alkane dehydrogenation through heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, underscoring the catalysts' industrial importance in processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, low-temperature treatment, and additives. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, enhancing performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Preparation methods and P/V ratios significantly affect catalytic behavior, and additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Optimal catalyst composition presents a slight excess of phosphorus, which stabilizes the catalyst and improves efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species and loading. Polymolybdate species, predominant at high loading, increase methane conversion but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species, despite lower methane conversion, enhance formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production. High molybdenum loading blocks HZSM-5 channels, affecting dispersion and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, critical for organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a potent catalyst, with enhanced activity through additives like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect processes yield synthesis gas, followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes produce ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling since 1982 offers direct methane conversion. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to benzene and carbon deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable higher hydrocarbon transformation in two steps. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, notably Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, significantly impact catalyst activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. Lower loadings form isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loads yield VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a highly exothermic reaction peaking at 873 K, is studied under high vanadium loadings to understand the relation between vanadium species properties and catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity, and the AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities boost efficiency, with the acidity ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to metal-exchanged variants, enhancing catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin production from methanol, and light alkane aromatization in petrochemicals.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits superior activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The process is initiated by the weakening of methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide. Grafting yields Mo(VI) species, enhancing formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering leading to lower CO selectivity. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike in aqueous impregnation, indicates high dispersion of MoO42species, confirmed by XPS and UV spectra.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies highlight high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, crucial in industrial catalysis. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, reduces these barriers. The support for vanadium oxide catalysts is vital for further barrier reduction and efficiency enhancement in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes converting independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, influencing regioselective H/D exchange in propane through two mechanisms: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, evidenced by differing kinetic parameters compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially in inert matrices, excel in selective alkane oxidation, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not the sole determinant. These factors are critical for industrial processes, as highlighted by the role of vanadium as the preferred element and the isolation of vanadium ions in inert matrices.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, leading to dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination, producing propylene and dihydrogen. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. Zn-containing zeolites exhibit higher aromatization activity, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield, benefiting from higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and metal cations improve dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, V2O5 activates CH bonds but requires a balance between activation and propene production for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane for heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences critically affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, enhancing industrial alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane conversion, enhances selectivity and longevity. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, affecting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia catalyst efficiency is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Higher VOx density boosts initial propene selectivities by reducing monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type, VOx density, or structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate. Higher hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn boosts BTX formation at elevated space velocities. Aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn may arise from secondary demethylation. Activation energies for propane conversion: ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al) 121+15 kJ mol-1, ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al) 104+15 kJ mol-1, ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al) 120+15 kJ mol-1.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar activity for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption. They facilitate dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase propene and aromatic turnover rates, and reduce cracking turnover rates. This efficiency in aromatization reactions and H2 extraction from light alkanes is a significant industrial benefit, with Ga and Zn species playing a pivotal role in recombinative desorption and H-atom removal from acid sites, improving selectivity and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two activation routes are identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Alkyl activation is favored due to lower activation barriers, with zinc cations acting as acceptors in the initial CH bond rupture. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, highlighting the efficiency of the alkyl activation route. The carbenium activation route is less favorable, with a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2, highlighting the importance of metal oxide dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly influence alkane transformations. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature are critical. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic activity. The role of Mo species and the modification of zeolite acid sites are pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose challenges for process development, and the status of Mo species during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, featuring isolated VO species, activate alkenes like propene via the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, optimal at around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites due to industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, and under oxidizing conditions, catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol, demonstrating the diverse capabilities of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for optimal olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, offering greater selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, enhancing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is critical in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica surfaces, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites in bulk surfaces show enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, as seen with Fe-HZSM-5 (Quote 6). The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature improves methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11, 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia being more selective than alumina or titania-supported variants. In molybdenum oxide catalysts, activity per Mo atom increases with Mo surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, while MoOx domain size impacts Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by redox properties, which affect the catalyst's surface oxidation state and product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity. A two-step mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride is observed, with Vw reduction controlling the first step and Vv availability the second. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's complexity, including the P:V ratio, affects selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective conversion. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, with lattice oxygen playing a crucial role in reactivity and interaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. The mechanism involves metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for oligomerization and cyclization. Zn or Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn enhances alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, forming Zn-alkyl species that interact with zeolite acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation. Zn's presence facilitates easier CH bond breaking and formation, promoting aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, leading to alkane dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces affect reactivity, with isolated GaO+ species oligomerizing to multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation via binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption, while hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are vital for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopic techniques. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments form surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species formation decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is driven by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the conversion of light alkanes to valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions boosts efficiency, leading to higher yields. Regeneration methods, though briefly mentioned, extend catalyst operational life, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) show that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences ODH rates and selectivity. Optimal conditions include intermediate vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest alkene yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide to form reactive gallyl ions, are stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, with varied Mo loading, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. High Mo loading favors polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but compromising formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, lower Mo loading promotes monomeric species, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity despite reduced methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high selectivity in aromatic oxidation to products like phenol, showcasing metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, underlining their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are effective for alkane transformations, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification improves catalysts. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been investigated. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and vanadium loading. Lower loadings favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, enhancing propene selectivity, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, with high dispersion improving performance. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. Reaction conditions, such as concentrated feeds, can reach temperatures up to 873 K, affecting catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, which is vital for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant, enabling processes like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, providing economic benefits through mild operating conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. After grafting and calcination, highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species enhance formaldehyde yield, attributed to isolated MoO42species' specific activity. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, with the initial activation step involving CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XRD spectra confirm high dispersion without aggregates. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly reduced in supported vanadia, highlighting the support's role in enhancing efficiency. Propane adsorption barriers suggest the necessity of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatics production, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, modifies alkane activation mechanisms in propane transformations through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium ions isolated in a stable matrix enhancing efficiency (Quote 2). Selective oxidation favors vanadium (Quote 1), and product stability is crucial (Quote 3). Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms (Quotes 4-6), though not solely sufficient (Quote 7). C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity (Quotes 8-9) are also key, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions' industrial success.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate propyl groups over Zn sites, producing propylene and dihydrogen while regenerating the active site. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions achieve high benzene selectivity from methane conversion. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield, with increased methane partial pressure enhancing the process. The carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, and metal cations significantly enhance ZSM-5's catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization, highlighting their industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in V2O5 play a role in CH bond activation, with bridging O atoms favoring propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is suboptimal due to excessive terminal O activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, facilitating ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for selective alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment, reaction conditions, additives, metal form, and feed composition. FePO4 is effective for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 excels in methane-to-aromatics conversion, underscoring catalysts' role in boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As VOx density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions dictate VOx structures at given densities, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenates, oligomerizes, and aromatizes, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, generating hydrogen in aromatization, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments enhance aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within zeolite channels, influenced by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, generating dispersed Ga3+ at high temperatures, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects on catalyst performance. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolite catalysts enhance alkane transformations by boosting propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H2 formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, optimizing yields of desired products and minimizing by-products, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored for its lower activation energy, and less favorable carbenium activation due to a high barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes by acting as acceptors in the alkyl rupture mechanism, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, impacting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, is crucial for formaldehyde selectivity in methane's partial oxidation over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Efficiency is influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the channel structure's acidity are pivotal for catalytic performance. Metals like Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrasting effect. The Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is significant for understanding reaction pathways and methane activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving terminal oxo species, is key, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking selectivity at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings feature tetrahedral V5+ species, boosting selectivity, while higher loadings with octahedral V5+ species increase activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, impacting alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental for technological processes. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, hydrogen abstraction occurs initially at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also involved in hydrogen abstraction without impacting overall kinetics. Notably, vanadia sites in bulk surfaces may exhibit greater activity than supported monomers on silica, as indicated by DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably converting methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, with the highest (31.51%) achieved using the catalyst with the largest iron content. The sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol (74%) is seen with the least iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The sodium form of molecular sieves increases selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates. Methanol is produced over Fe-ZSM-5 at 350°C, with oxidation patterns varying depending on the catalyst form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymerized VO4 species are active, with the latter more extensively reduced during alkane oxidation. Higher surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity. Using N2O instead of O2 enhances surface reduction and selectivity. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. The design of efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from isolating active sites, as seen in VOx-SBA-15 systems, which offer a high concentration of accessible, structurally defined sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with vanadium's valence state playing a pivotal role. The conversion of alkanes to maleic anhydride involves a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and a second step of further oxidation, guided by the availability of Vv. A high Vv content risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The P:V ratio is essential for catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. Surface oxygen concentrations guide the selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride, with high concentrations supporting a single-site mechanism for selective conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn species facilitate reversible CH bond breaking, with alkanes dissociatively adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites activate alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced by catalytic experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is dependent on terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic species, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, impacting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Preparation methods and oxide support phases do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of surface vanadia species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, facilitating oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. They efficiently convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, crucial for industrial application and operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities significantly impact ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with optimal ethene and propene formation rates at intermediate densities. High alkene yields are achieved using catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces are crucial for reaction rates and selectivity. Smaller ratios of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity, with the highest olefin yields obtained at the highest possible reaction temperatures on catalysts with isolated monovanadates. Persistent controversies in the field are attributed to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion in the MTG process. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide to form reactive GaO+ ions, are pivotal. Steam stabilizes GaO+, increasing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing performance. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with excess phosphorus on the (100) plane forming a less oxidizable phase. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, improving efficiency over time. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, aiding V4+ stability. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, critical for alkane transformations, exhibit efficiency variations influenced by composition and structure. Two series were studied: one with polymolybdate species predominant at high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%), reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). The other, treated with ammonia, had well-dispersed monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), whereas treated catalysts exhibited lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, demonstrating high efficiency and potential for organic synthesis technologies. Catalyst performance is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites are crucial for methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are efficient, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ions supported HZSM-5 catalysts enable methane aromatization to benzene under non-oxidative conditions. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings, impacting catalytic activity. Propane dehydrogenation is exothermic, with optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity, with both forms being active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including metal-exchanged zeolites like Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. These metals increase acidity in the sequence: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for catalytic efficiency in reactions such as MTG and light alkane aromatization. Acid site strength, density, metal stability, and reducibility affect selectivity and conversion, making these catalysts economically significant for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and subsequent calcination, this process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, avoiding MoO3 aggregates. The catalyst's superior efficiency in MPO is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the supported phase, with formaldehyde selectivity enhanced due to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, with the CH bond's weakness, initiated by interaction with the zeolite surface, playing a key role in the activation mechanism. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity. The new catalyst's structure and composition, achieved through grafting, offer potential for efficient catalysis in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. These barriers, higher than those for supported vanadia, suggest complex reactions like concerted O2 adsorption may reduce them. The necessity of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, to lower barriers such as propane adsorption, highlights its role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts, including Zn-ZSM-5 and Ga-ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes, crucial for processes transforming light gases to BTX aromatics. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite modify alkane activation mechanisms, enhancing regioselective H/D exchange in propane's methyl groups through two pathways: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency hinges on multifunctional design, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity, though multifunctionality alone is insufficient. These factors are pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Reactant pressure affects efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield positively correlating with methane partial pressure. Metal cations boost catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism underpins the industrial relevance of these catalysts, enabling selective and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their structure affects CH bond activation and propene production, with a balance needed between activation and propene release for efficiency. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation, meeting global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, crucial for dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc-modified HZSM-5 shows strong ethane polarizability and heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium-modified HZSM-5 has weaker ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, influencing industrial processes for selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is pivotal for enhancing efficiency and selectivity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are exemplars in CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Key factors affecting performance are the active metal state, feed composition, pretreatment conditions, and reaction temperature, highlighting the need for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike rate-controlled ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may originate from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated by ion-exchange, reduce to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which generate optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for efficient H-atom removal. This boosts propene and H2 production, increasing aromatization efficiency while minimizing cracking turnover rates, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation through alkyl and carbenium activation routes, with the former being more efficient due to lower activation barriers (18.4 kcal mol-1 for alkyl vs. 67.6 kcal mol-1 for carbenium). Alkane aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations enhance alkyl rupture, crucial for industrial processes. The high activation barrier for carbenium activation makes it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, highlighting the role of metal oxide nature. In W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P reduce it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species-HZSM-5 interaction is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, posing a challenge in methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, featuring isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity on silica support within a narrow temperature window around 500 C, governed by the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates, directly converting methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% for n-butane and ethane. Ethene selectivity outperforms butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, dominant at lower loadings, enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation, while octahedral V5+ species, prevalent at higher loadings, increase activity. Acid sites, mostly Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted at high loadings, significantly affect efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental, with vanadyl sites central in the rate-determining step of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction occurs predominantly at OVV sites and secondarily at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene formation. Vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly than carbon dioxide, but formaldehyde and carbon dioxide formation is quicker than with hydrogen form catalysts. XRD patterns confirm Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Efficient catalyst design benefits from isolated active sites, with isomorphous substitution into microporous and mesoporous materials as a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane ODH, VOx-SBA-15 systems with a large concentration of accessible, isolated active sites perform well. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, controlled by feed redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, is crucial for selectivity in maleic anhydride synthesis. This process involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, with Vw reduction and Vv availability governing selectivity. Catalyst preparation methods determine redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion rates. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system exhibits phase interconversion, with preparation variables affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is crucial for optimal performance, influencing selectivity and activity. Active phases like vanadyl pyrophosphate are key in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. PVO's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane selectivity. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varied surface effects, with oxygen balances revealing the role of Vv phosphate as an oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins to aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and promoting alkane activation through adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species boost H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, as evidenced by structure-activity relationships elucidated through spectroscopy (Muylaert & Van Der Voort, 2009). Confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming in high-silica zeolites, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation (Boronat et al., 2009). Dimeric gallium species facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can reduce reactivity. Adding water to the hydrocarbon feed boosts the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite (Boronat et al., 2009). These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by factors such as monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure as critical factors. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, enhancing operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities influence ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities, with high alkene yields requiring high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, especially with extraframework oxygen atoms, enhance alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species. At high loading, polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity due to decreased dispersion and channel blocking. Monomeric species, despite lower methane conversion, show specificity for formaldehyde production, highlighting the role of molybdenum species in catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity in converting benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is significantly influenced by iron's role and the zeolite matrix's composition, highlighting their importance in organic synthesis advancements.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as effective. Additives like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhance activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect routes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Oxygen use leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites influence active species and mechanisms. The sequence of metal activity is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Methane aromatization over Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites has been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation method, and environmental conditions, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra form at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 create active species, enhancing catalytic activity. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, along with reaction conditions, significantly affect efficiency. Industrially, these catalysts offer benefits such as mild conditions, reduced energy use, and higher yields, making them crucial for processes like olefin manufacture and light alkane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Methane, abundant in natural gas, converts to methanol or formaldehyde, key for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods. Methane activation starts with CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Isolated MoO42species, formed by grafting and calcination, boost formaldehyde yield. The grafting method avoids water, yielding dispersed oxo species unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, higher than for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. The support's role in reducing propane adsorption barriers is crucial for enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts convert light alkanes to aromatics, crucial for processes transforming light gases. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 is preferred over Zn-ZSM-5 due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, changing alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms for regioselectivity involve propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI suggest an alternative mechanism, highlighting the catalyst's unique role in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium-based catalysts, crucial for selective oxidation [1], enhance efficiency through isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix [2]. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding [5][6], complemented by C-H bond activation types, acidity, and basicity [8][9], all vital for product stability and industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts efficiently activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with pressure impacting the process, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably for methane conversion under non-oxidizing conditions. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production, with Mo and Zn playing a critical role in methane activation. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, emphasizing the influence of reaction conditions. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underscoring the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for converting alkanes to olefins through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct alkane activation mechanisms, crucial for dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane at room temperature and enabling heterolytic dissociation, producing Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity in industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, notably methane conversion. FePO4 aids in producing CH3OH and HCHO, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition, crucial for industrial catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure evolves from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing surface density, influenced by support type. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, highlighting the balance between activity and accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when considering VOx structure differences.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local concentration depletion favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly impact aromatization activity and ethane dehydrogenation efficiency. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, exhibiting similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts at 550C generate optimal, dispersed Ga3+, enhancing ethane aromatization selectivity and stability under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with the dispersion and oxidation state affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as seen in propane dehydrocyclodimerization. They act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal essential for H2 formation without concurrent cracking. This boosts efficiency by allowing acid sites to turnover without producing cracking by-products, increasing propene and aromatic yields. Ga and Zn species increase H2 selectivity from light alkanes by catalyzing recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The zinc cation facilitates alkyl activation, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. The carbenium route, less favorable due to a high activation barrier, offers additional insight. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol being a studied route. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, impacted by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are pivotal for catalytic activity. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W improve reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic behavior. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction affect zeolite properties. Carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites can activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly aromatize methane. Notably, M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but selectivity is greater with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting catalytic efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica enable propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with initial hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites and subsequent abstraction potentially at VOSi bridging oxygen, without affecting overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia on bulk surfaces shows higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity, with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    