Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity and selectivity to olefins peak at intermediate VOx domain sizes and active phase loadings, respectively. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2, and MoOx domain size impacts oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Redox properties significantly impact the catalyst's surface state and product formation, influencing selectivity. A two-step mechanism, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, is controlled by the rates of Vw reduction and Vv availability. Catalyst preparation procedures affect redox properties and selectivity, with the vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's P:V ratio and crystalline phase playing a critical role. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit distinct kinetic behaviors, indicating varied catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze recombinative desorption of H atoms as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal species' stability and reactivity are governed by their coordination environment. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, as per Quote 3. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage, as described in Quote 4. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, as explained in Quote 5. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, as per Quote 7. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is influenced by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard reduction and influence TOFs, while noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, convert alkanes to valuable products. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit enhanced propene formation rates, eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with lower vanadia surface densities, featuring isolated monovanadate species, show the highest initial alkene selectivity and yield when operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Reaction rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities, influenced by the transition from monovanadates to poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, optimizing olefin yields on catalysts with isolated monovanadates.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation affects (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Additives enhance performance, and conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or post-treatment with ammonia, exhibit distinct activity in methane conversion to formaldehyde. High Mo loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Ammonia treatment yields well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species, however, ensure higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving high selectivity at moderate benzene conversion. Efficiency hinges on zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics. Dinitrogen monoxide's use marks a significant advance in organic synthesis technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal-supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity and stability boosted by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied to improve catalysts. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions significantly impact catalyst performance, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 shows promise for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are shaped by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. On alumina, lower vanadium loadings yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, peaking at 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species boosts propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. Higher vanadium loadings increase the portion of vanadium as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 create active species, enhancing reactions such as MTG and olefin production from methanol. The strength and density of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, along with metal stability and reducibility, are critical for alkane conversion and selectivity. These catalysts are economically significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields for large-scale production in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances activity compared to classical impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakens upon interaction with the zeolite surface, initiating the transformation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. Spectroscopy confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating highly dispersed molybdenum(VI). XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, exceeding experimental values for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Reducing others, such as for propane adsorption, likely requires a support, highlighting the role of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as Oleflex and Cyclar, focusing on BTX production. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. This underscores the importance of catalyst composition in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances alkane transformation efficiency through regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal and altering alkane activation. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations. Vanadium's selective oxidation role and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are pivotal. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding but is not solely sufficient. These factors are critical for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI zeolites catalyze propane conversion through initial adsorption over Zn oxide, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation over Zn sites yields propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes further reactions over acidic sites, with dihydrogen participating in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, a key process for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo and Zn boosts catalytic activity and methane activation, increasing benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O site's overactivity hinders propene release, crucial for catalyst efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their selective oxidation of alkanes into valuable olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc facilitates heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane polarizability, forming Brnsted acid protons upon dissociation. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are exemplars in CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, where selectivity is significantly affected by these factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered, with similar rates on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization, yet for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active. Reoxidation yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but hydrogen-reducible. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatic yields, trace rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in zeolites, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and hydrogen desorption, enhancing deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom desorption to form H2, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity in propene formation. These enhancements lead to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-product formation, underscoring their industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites, as metal-based catalysts, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Two key mechanisms for ethane conversion to ethene were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation barriers. The initial aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, facilitating the CH bond rupture. Activation energies for the three critical steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, highlighting the energy requirements for each transformation phase. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly impacts catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions critically impact alkane transformation efficiency. Specific metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature are influential. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, affecting acid sites and reaction mechanisms. Carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge for reaction understanding and process development. The real status of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for ethene from ethane is higher than for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, also affects catalytic performance, contributing to the industrial relevance of these catalysts. Characterization methods confirm the presence of isolated and associated tetrahedral and octahedral V5+ species at lower loadings, with a transition to V2O5 crystallites at higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring on OVV sites initially and VOSi bridging oxygen sites subsequently. Propene formation is faster after readsorption on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces may offer enhanced activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time enhance methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity (Quotes 9, 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C, with higher temperatures promoting its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11, 12). The catalyst's structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction mechanisms (Quotes 3, 4, 5). Methanol and carbon dioxide production rates vary with catalyst form (Quotes 13, 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts supported on silica exhibit greater selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. The design of efficient catalysts benefits from the isolation of active sites, with isomorphous substitution of active metal species into microporous and mesoporous materials. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, controlled by feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is crucial. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, including solvent type and P:V ratio, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. The activation of CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn, forming intermediates that lead to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, effectively converting alkanes to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces, studied through spectroscopy and theory, uncovers catalysis mechanisms. In high-silica zeolites, GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species significantly cleave CH bonds, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ coordination and reduced extraframework oxygen basicity promote H2 desorption. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon environments, with insights from in situ Raman spectroscopy. The stability of V(5) silica-supported species may relate to isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, with a decrease in Lewis acid sites and an increase in Br0nsted acid sites upon surface vanadia formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with vanadia coverage, with their role needing further study. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, with effects being reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are crucial for alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which activate light alkanes under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases with vanadia density for propane, indicating that isolated structures at low surface densities are more selective for alkane dehydrogenation. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, with the highest alkene yield achieved on catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density shows the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, especially when involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A slight excess of phosphorus stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving catalyst performance. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives are also crucial for optimal catalyst composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation led to tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loadings causing polymolybdate dominance, reduced dispersion, and zeolite channel blockage (Quote 3). Ammonia-treated catalysts featured well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics to phenol at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features, highlighting potential for efficient technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect processes rely on synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions. Transition metal ion activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits, and two-step routes over supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation methods and vanadium loadings, are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching temperatures above 873 K. High propene selectivity is achieved with dispersed, tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their performance is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 increase acidity and catalytic activity, with the acidity ratio rising from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, critical for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for petrochemical processes due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits superior activity to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, calcination yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation is crucial for converting vast natural gas reserves, mostly methane, into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of these species, while XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. The catalyst's performance is attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, which are crucial for CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, exceeding reactant levels, which are notably higher than experimental observations. Complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the use of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts can lower these barriers, significantly impacting the efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, with ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective alkane oxidation (Quote 1), with isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix enhancing performance (Quote 2). Multifunctionality, as a design criterion and mechanism elucidator, is crucial but not solely sufficient (Quotes 5-7). Efficiency is also dictated by the type of C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity (Quotes 8-9), underscoring their industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, and subsequent dehydrogenation yields propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, and dihydrogen shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial value of these catalysts for stable, non-oxidizing dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) show that while both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate propane's CH bond, the terminal O site's overactivity hinders propene release, crucial for efficient catalysis. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zn2+ promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, Ga+ facilitates weak adsorption, causing ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, crucial for advancing methane conversion, enhances selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite improve methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx surface density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure, and are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support identity or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, as reoxidation at high temperatures yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Catalyst pretreatments significantly influence performance, with reoxidized forms favoring aromatics over methane. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within zeolites, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen. This enhances propene and aromatic production while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Sequential H-atom release limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates on H-ZSM5. Ga and Zn species significantly contribute to industrial processes by increasing desired product yields and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically dehydrogenation. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate the ethane CH bond rupture, a critical step with computed activation energies. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offering a potential alternative to conventional processes. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts reported over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Critical factors include the interaction between Mo and transition metal ions with zeolite support, the role of Mo species in HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, and the impact of metal loadings on reactivity and stability. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly affect performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and the introduction of Mo species changes the zeolite's acid sites. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose a challenge to reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface sites being the most reactive, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% for olefin selectivity. Selectivity to ethene from ethane is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products from butane. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loadings, also impact efficiency. These factors are critical for optimizing alkane transformations in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being a key step. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces are more active than silica-supported monomers, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion and selectivity for methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity (Quote 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures (Quote 11), but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically significant centers depend on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric VO4 species are active, with polymerized species more extensively reduced. Catalysts' selectivity is influenced by the oxide support, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Selectivity to propylene correlates with basicity and MO bond energy. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, and microporous materials are promising for this purpose. Molybdenum oxide-based catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their performance can be optimized by controlling Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and influencing CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The feed's redox properties influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is contingent on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, are critical steps. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption, forming Zn-alkyl intermediates. This interaction boosts H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites boosts alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. Gallium species oligomerize in micropores, forming multinuclear oxygenated complexes. Binuclear gallium-oxo species cleave CH bonds, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lived on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species exhibit different reactivities based on the specific oxide support, preparation methods, and the presence of surface Lewis and BrCnsted acid sites. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives enhancing hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The unique characteristics of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is governed by active site nature, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, critical for industrial use. These catalysts enable the activation of light alkanes under mild conditions, underscoring their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar and insensitive to vanadia density. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates and operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are pivotal for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, impacting morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; additives; and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity, crucial for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation methods significantly influence methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional impregnation leads to polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but compromising formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, ammonia-washed catalysts, featuring monomeric Mo species, offer lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production. Polymolybdate species are more reactive in methane activation, yet they result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species, however, demonstrate higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are efficient catalysts in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, offering potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports influences active species and mechanisms. Oxygen use leads to deep oxidation, prompting oxygen-free transformations to suppress CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a notable catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing activity. Zeolite micropore modification is extensively studied. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling since 1982 offers direct conversion. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a reaction reaching 873 K, vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, are critical. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both isolated and polymerized, achieves the highest propene selectivity and is active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation, forming active species, enhance acidity, with the acidity ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild reaction conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst significantly enhances methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to vast natural gas reserves. The catalyst's isolated MoO42species, achieved by grafting without water, improve formaldehyde yield. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening on the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, exceeding reactant energies by 45-80 kcal/mol, though complex reactions involving O2 adsorption may lower these barriers. Catalyst support is vital for reducing propane adsorption barriers, emphasizing the significance of catalyst structure and conditions in alkane transformations, particularly in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes, notably methane, to methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes undergo conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation, catalyzed by ZSM-5, transforms light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX. Aromatization yields light alkenes alongside BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 enhancing BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, favoring gallium to mitigate zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, promotes regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites for hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, suggesting an alternative mechanism on Zn/H-MFI.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are critical in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation (Quote 1). Catalyst efficiency is enhanced by vanadium's isolation in a quasi-inert matrix and product stability. Multifunctionality (Quote 4) aids in design and mechanism understanding, complemented by C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity (Quote 9), all essential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, with subsequent dehydrogenation yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Efficiency is pressure-dependent: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can further aromatize, explaining the catalyst's higher aromatization activity. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion to benzene. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly boosts catalytic activity and selectivity under non-oxidizing conditions. Higher methane partial pressure enhances benzene yield, underscoring the critical role of metal cations in methane activation. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that bridging lattice O atoms facilitate easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding, crucial for an efficient catalyst balancing CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts distinctly activate ethane, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, strongly adsorbing ethane and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are crucial for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are essential for higher selectivity and longer catalyst life, crucial for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and VOx surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with higher VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decline. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-Zn exhibits a quasi-equilibrium dehydrogenation process, unlike the rate-controlled process over ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity slightly increased with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation yields a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene dehydrogenation rates. Gallium dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatment. Optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as evidenced by enhanced deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H2 formation by catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes', these metals improve efficiency and selectivity by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and increasing propene formation. This selective H-atom removal is crucial for high H2 selectivity from light alkanes, vital for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: CH bond alkyl activation and less favorable carbenium activation. Ethane's CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc cations, initiates the process, with computed activation energies highlighting the steps' efficiency. Carbenium activation faces a high barrier, making it less efficient. These insights optimize zeolite catalysts for aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies highlight high selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts and the role of tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading, in achieving formaldehyde selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with optimized conditions and catalyst modifications enhancing efficiency. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is critical for catalytic activity and aromatics formation. Select metal loadings, influenced by preparation methods and calcination temperatures, improve reactivity and stability. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, significantly affect performance. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Acid site nature changes with vanadium loading, influencing the catalyst's industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly supported vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being a key step. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, where the first hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than as supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, whereas the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, confirms Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity. Methanol production over Fe-ZSM-5 peaks at 350°C, while higher temperatures favor its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly than carbon dioxide, but methanol oxidizes to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide more quickly than with hydrogen form catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are critical in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Alkane/O2 ratios affect vanadium reduction and catalytically significant centers. Support materials impact performance, with silica-supported vanadium oxide showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, exhibit increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, determined by the feed's redox properties, dictates product formation. Vanadium's valence state change, governed by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is critical. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio's effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are significant. A two-step reaction mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride, controlled by vanadium's oxidation state, affects selectivity. Preparation procedures impact catalyst properties, especially in the PVO system, revealing the role of solid-state chemistry and the P:V ratio. The layered structure and intercalation chemistry of the PVO system influence catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity in the n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction. Surface oxygen concentrations support the mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects and highlight the reactivity and interaction of the two hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn facilitate H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates CH bond breakage and formation, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, boosting ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly improving dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports and remains stable under reducing and reaction environments. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied, revealing a terminal V=O bond and bridging V-O-support bonds. The hydration-dehydration processes of supported vanadia catalysts are completely reversible. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, whereas reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of reactions, though the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly affect the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation processes. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts efficiency and yields. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures (Quote 2). High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions (Quote 5). Surface density impacts the ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates differently for ethane and propane, with higher selectivity observed in samples with low vanadia surface density (Quote 24). Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation are similar, with propene formation being more favorable than ethene (Quote 31). Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities (Quote 36).", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. GaO+ ions, formed by oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide, significantly boost dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+ ions, and water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing the reaction energy for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment enhances performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their role in selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, exhibit distinct activity in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loadings, which block zeolite channels and activate methane but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-treated catalysts, rich in tetrahedral monomeric Mo=O sites, show lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, such as the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a strategy for methane conversion, with studies revealing synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports. Oxygen is crucial for many methane conversion processes, leading to deep oxidation, but researchers aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied for improved catalyst performance. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions influence catalyst activity in the sequence: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the molecular structure of surface species, which is affected by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. This exothermic reaction reaches temperatures of 873 K or higher in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed on alumina support at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 boosts catalytic activity by forming active species, enhancing acidity. The efficiency is optimized with a higher ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, as seen in the sequence from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields. The strength, density of acid sites, and metal stability are key for selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, featuring highly dispersed MoO42species, boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The activation mechanism begins with CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting avoids water, yielding isolated molybdenum(VI) oxo species with high dispersion, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, significantly higher than experimental findings. Complex reactions, such as concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using catalysts like ZSM-5 in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation. This conversion, including methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, isn't completely selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, facilitated by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modification leads to hydrogen removal, with two proposed mechanisms: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, highlighting its role in altering alkane transformation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are crucial for selective alkane oxidation and C-H bond activation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Product stability and multifunctionality, though essential, are not solely adequate. Acidity and basicity also significantly impact efficiency, underpinning the industrial significance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts are critical in propane activation, starting with dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups undergo dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize, cyclize, and aromatize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo and Zn enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with rising methane partial pressure. Studies reveal a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For example, V2O5(001) activates CH bonds via multiple pathways but its high activity at terminal O sites hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance in catalyst properties. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes moderate-temperature heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates high-temperature ethane dissociation into ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, highlighting the catalysts' industrial importance in selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion, focusing on FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, is crucial for enhancing selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, highlighting the need for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) are significantly influenced by vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with higher VOx density. Polyvanadates form earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and exposed support sites, favoring combustion, decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and better BTX selectivity (60-70%). The conversion mechanism involves initial dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H, where it is rate-controlled. Increasing space velocity enhances BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, shifting equilibrium towards BTX. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit enhanced aromatization activity post-pretreatment, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show comparable redox behavior and propane aromatization activity to Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts are more active and selective, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates capable of aromatizing aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments, and the addition of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium boosts aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production lacks reduced Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by accelerating reaction rates and selectivity. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, which allows dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This selective H-atom removal increases propene formation and H2 production with high selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes. Ga and Zn species enhance H2 formation via recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in acid-catalyzed C-H bond activation, improving efficiency and reducing cracking products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, offering two routes for ethane dehydrogenation: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation is the initial step in ethane and propane aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture, with computed activation energies highlighting the process efficiency. The carbenium activation route, though present, is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a studied alternative. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. The introduction of Mo species changes zeolite acid sites, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, while the role of Mo species during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, featuring isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent side reactions, with silica as the ideal support. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction, is key. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing diverse metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites with Mo or Zn convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while the mechanism for methane to ethylene conversion is debated. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, and Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, while selectivity peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial for both technological and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled with vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, shows hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites and secondarily at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity when part of the bulk surface, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, whereas the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domains' properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and slowing CH bond activation, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Two steps define the transformation to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst redox properties are preparation-dependent, with similar selectivity at low conversion but varying performance at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's P:V ratio is critical, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. The kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyzes H atom desorption as H2, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn boosts H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies, and facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn-alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces impact reactivity, with theory guiding structure-activity understanding. GaO+ species in zeolites oligomerize, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination enhance H2 desorption. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivity, making these processes industrially significant for converting light alkanes under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods can extend catalyst life by mitigating deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density, featuring isolated monovanadate species, show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. Optimal conditions for alkene yield include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity. Previous studies on the effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have shown inconsistent results, partly due to the lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium in MFI zeolites, enhance alkane transformation efficiency. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A P/V ratio above stoichiometric levels stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are critical for the industrial significance of these catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo loading and species. Higher Mo loading leads to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane conversion but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, ammonia-treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol. This highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties in influencing catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity for methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective at high temperatures, though coke formation is a challenge. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties in alkane transformations are influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is an exothermic process, and the highest propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species formed at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites creates active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites and their strength are critical for optimal performance. Reaction conditions significantly influence active species and efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for reactions such as MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances alkane transformations, notably methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde, a process of significant scientific and industrial interest due to methane's abundance in natural gas. The catalyst, after calcination, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, boosting formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The mechanism involves weakening methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafting method avoids MoO3 aggregate formation, typically seen with aqueous impregnation, leading to higher CO selectivity attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. This discrepancy underscores the support's role in lowering barriers, particularly for propane adsorption, highlighting supported catalysts' importance in enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, convert to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, while higher alkanes transform independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatics conversion isn't fully selective, yielding light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, with Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites that favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably in quasi-inert matrices, excel in selective alkane oxidation, a critical process in metal-based catalysis. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in design and mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient. These insights are pivotal for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propylene and dihydrogen, with hydrogen influencing the equilibrium toward propylene formation. This process, efficient under pressure-dependent conditions, is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal for alkane transformations, specifically converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. The presence of Mo or Zn enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, boosting benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, and the incorporation of metal cations into ZSM-5 significantly improves dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, highlighting their industrial significance in converting methane to chemical products with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is dictated by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release, emphasizing the need for a balance. These catalysts are industrially vital for converting alkanes to olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, drive alkane transformations in dehydrogenation processes. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, creating ethyl and hydride fragments, leading to gallium dihydride species. These distinct mechanisms enhance efficiency and selectivity in hydrocarbon conversions, making these catalysts industrially significant for alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are pivotal for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane to aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition, essential for optimizing these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is shaped by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar across supports when VOx structure is considered, and are comparable on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface sites. Secondary propene oxidation rates are independent of support identity, VOx density, or structure, highlighting the role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and reoxidation to Ga3+, significantly impact aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which yield dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene dehydrogenation, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts lack framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 enhance efficiency by overcoming limitations. Sequential H-atom release restricts dehydrocyclodimerization rates, but Ga and Zn facilitate H2 formation, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking. These metals increase aromatic turnover while decreasing cracking, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving selectivity. They boost propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products, and enhancing desired yields. Recombinative desorption contributes to high H2 selectivity, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, with two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond. Activation energies for the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium route has a high activation barrier, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by Mo-HZSM-5 interaction, metal loadings, preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions. Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite interaction is critical, altering acid sites and catalytic activity. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others reduce it. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures impact performance, as do pre-treatments and reaction conditions. Methane dehydro-aromatization understanding is hindered by heavy carbon deposits, and the real status of Mo species is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation. Silica optimally supports small clusters for high selectivity at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, confirmed by DFT calculations, involves H-abstraction to form propene. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation and direct aromatization of methane, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, industrially relevant, activate H2 and alkanes for H/D exchange and aromatics formation. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity to olefins peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity favors ethene over butane oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings yield tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings produce octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalyst performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being fundamental. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, where the first hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with higher propene formation rates after readsorption on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in bulk surfaces than as monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12). Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly but also accelerate its oxidation compared to hydrogen form catalysts (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and enhancing propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes are governed by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and reduction rate at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are two key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, respectively. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or through alkane adsorption. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization ability. The direct influence of Zn on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as spectroscopy and theory reveal in confined zeolite spaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is bolstered by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, includes a terminal V=O bond and bridging V-O-support bonds for isolated species, with additional V-O-V bonds for polymerized species. Surface vanadia species can undergo reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Reactivity is associated with the dehydrated V(5+) state, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a pivotal role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies with the specific reactant, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of these reactions is influenced by the type of additive, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions, contributing to the industrial significance of supported vanadia catalysts in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing these factors boosts yields and selectivities. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods enhancing their operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga/ZSM-5, are crucial for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like aromatization and methane conversion. Oxidation by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, boosting dehydrogenation. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and organic medium use lower the transformation temperature. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, and another with a well-dispersed monomeric phase. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) leads to polymolybdate dominance, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts with monomeric species offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their efficiency in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhanced efficiency through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification significantly impacts catalytic activity. Direct conversion routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect processes involve synthesis gas production. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Surface oxygen species interact with CH4, facilitating CH bond splitting. Pt-based catalysts enable two-step methane transformation, and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 achieves methane aromatization to benzene. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization, demonstrating the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods and vanadium loadings, form isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches max temperatures of 873 K. Studies focus on high-temperature, high-loading vanadium oxide species, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation creates active species, enhancing the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio, which is critical for efficiency. The sequence of acidity is HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. Acid site strength, metal species' stability, and reducibility influence selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for reactions such as MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, enabling mild conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation, producing highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, is significant due to the vast natural gas reserves, making methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, scientifically and industrially relevant. Methane activation begins with the weakening of the CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface, and formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, outperforming traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show unexpectedly high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, exceeding experimental observations. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower some barriers. The adsorption barrier reduction for propane necessitates a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, underscoring the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances alkane transformation efficiency through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, facilitated by Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms contribute to methyl group regioselectivity: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI suggest an alternative mechanism, differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, especially vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix is essential. Product stability, multifunctionality as a criterion in design and tool for mechanism explanation, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity are key efficiency factors. These elements are vital for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene may oligomerize, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, boosting benzene yield with increased methane partial pressure. Studies under non-oxidizing conditions reveal improved catalytic activity with metal cation addition, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveals that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium exhibits weak adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation forming ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversion efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion processes, focusing on efficiency, selectivity, and longevity, is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, exemplify how these factors impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn marginally increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. The quasi-equilibrium of the BTX-forming dehydrogenation process over ZSM-5-Zn explains the distinct behavior of BTX selectivity with space velocity compared to ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolites boost alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2). They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. These species increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, optimizing yields of desired products. This selective H-atom removal is pivotal for industrial applications, enabling high-yield alkane transformations and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. The mechanism involves zinc cations facilitating CH bond rupture, leading to dehydrogenation and subsequent dehydrocyclooligomerization. Computed activation energies highlight the energy requirements for these steps, confirming the efficiency of zinc cations in enhancing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by Banares et al. with 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, with W/HZSM-5 catalysts showing formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite support, especially Mo species in HZSM-5, are pivotal for catalytic activity. Certain metals improve reactivity and stability, while others have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic outcomes. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite activity. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow 500 C temperature window to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, catalyzing H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and aromatization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower in butane than in ethane. At lower V loadings, VO4 tetrahedra are observed, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Octahedral V5+ species boost activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature changes with V loading, affecting catalyst performance. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide and zeolite catalysts are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is pivotal. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity as part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are key in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is seen with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to further oxidation (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    