Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity at intermediate VOx domain sizes and selectivity to olefins at intermediate active phase loadings. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with lower propane combustion at low vanadia loading on silica. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density, with maximum rates at 4.5 Mo/nm2, and MoOx domain size impacts oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties significantly influence the catalyst's surface state and product selectivity, with a two-step mechanism involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties and selectivity, with the vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's P:V ratio and crystalline phase playing a critical role. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation, while surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit distinct kinetic behaviors, indicating varied catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom recombinative desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites being pivotal for conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming from isolated GaO+ under microporous conditions (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cations catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage (Quote 4). Stable coordination and reduced basicity facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition (Quote 5). Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 experiments (Quote 7). These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be studied using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is influenced by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 has both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds are not critical for reactivity, but bridging V-O-support bonds are, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives can retard reduction and influence TOFs, while noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while addressing deactivation boosts industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts demonstrate enhanced propene formation rates, eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with lower vanadia surface densities, featuring isolated monovanadate species, exhibit the highest initial alkene selectivity and yield when operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Reaction rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities, influenced by the transition from monovanadates to poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, optimizing olefin yields on catalysts with isolated monovanadates.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane aromatization and methane-to-gasoline processes. Ga+ oxidation by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, as seen in the increased activity of Ga/ZSM-5 compared to HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Additives enhance performance, and conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Mo loading and species, impact methane conversion to formaldehyde. High Mo loading promotes polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, monomeric species, favored by lower Mo loading, ensure higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving high selectivity at moderate benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics. The use of dinitrogen monoxide marks a significant advance in organic synthesis technology, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites are crucial for methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied to improve catalysts. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Transition metal ions significantly impact catalyst performance, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina yield isolated/polymerized VO4 units, enhancing propene selectivity, while higher loadings form VO6 octahedra. The reaction is exothermic, peaking at 873 K. Tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both isolated and polymerized, are active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5. Higher vanadium loadings increase the portion of vanadium as AlVO4, affecting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 create active species, boosting reactions like MTG and olefin production from methanol. The density and strength of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, along with metal stability and reducibility, are vital for alkane conversion and selectivity. These catalysts are economically significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing product yields in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhances activity compared to classical impregnation catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakens upon interaction with the zeolite surface, initiating the transformation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. Spectroscopy confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating highly dispersed molybdenum(VI). XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, typical in aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be significantly reduced by complex reactions and the presence of a support, underscoring the importance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes like Oleflex and Cyclar, targeting BTX production. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. This highlights the significance of catalyst composition in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, enhances alkane transformation efficiency through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, with Zn2+ cations favoring hydrogen removal and altering alkane activation. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, indicating an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, crucial in alkane transformations, excel in selective oxidation and require isolation in a quasi-inert matrix. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctional catalyst properties, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity balance. Multifunctionality aids in design and mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient, impacting industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI zeolites catalyze propane conversion by initially adsorbing over Zn oxide to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Dehydrogenation over Zn sites produces propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Further reactions over acidic sites involve dihydrogen in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene, crucial for natural gas utilization. Incorporating Mo and Zn enhances catalytic activity and methane activation, boosting benzene yield under higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate CH bonds in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001), but overactivity at terminal O sites can hinder propene release, impacting catalyst efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective oxidation of alkanes into valuable olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enables heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, facilitating ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect hydrocarbon conversions in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite demonstrate significant effects on selectivity in CH3OH, HCHO, and methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered, with similar rates on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction and reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Reduced gallium (Ga+) enhances propane aromatization, but for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolites enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and hydrogen desorption, increasing deuterium incorporation and H2 formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving propene formation efficiency and selectivity without concurrent cracking. This boosts aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, crucial for industrial alkane processing.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane to ethene conversion, via two mechanisms: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more efficient due to lower activation barriers. Zinc facilitates CH bond rupture, with computed activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for critical steps, highlighting energy requirements. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly impacts catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Using W/HZSM-5 catalysts and molecular oxygen, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is crucial, affecting acid sites and reaction mechanisms in methane dehydro-aromatization. Carbonaceous deposits pose a significant challenge for reaction understanding and process development. The real status of Mo species during reactions is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica optimally supports isolated centers for high selectivity, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, including H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity for olefins at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for ethene from ethane is superior to that for butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts display VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species yielding higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, significantly affects catalytic performance. At lower loadings, isolated and associated tetrahedral and octahedral V5+ species are observed, transitioning to V2O5 crystallites at higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a fundamental step in these processes. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is more rapid after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces may offer superior activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly affect methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time enhances methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, with higher temperatures promoting its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, with Fe(III) incorporated into framework sites, influences reaction mechanisms. Methanol and carbon dioxide production rates vary with catalyst form, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring methanol production but also accelerating its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide compared to Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit peak activity at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts supported on silica exhibit greater selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. The VOx-SBA-15 system, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, provides a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites, making it one of the best performing catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface, impacting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, influenced by feed's redox potential and oxidation/reduction rates, is critical. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, followed by further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, including solvent type and P:V ratio, affecting crystallinity and defect structure. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a catalyst for H atom desorption as H2, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. The synergistic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, effectively converting alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces, involving multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhances coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species significantly cleave CH bonds, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, where hydrogenation of the cluster can lead to less reactive reduced sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, and the nature of the oxide support. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, with hydration-dehydration processes being reversible. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments, and oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon environments. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation, influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction, with interacting additives modifying surface vanadia sites and affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, with effects being reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including active sites, acidity, and pore structure, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances efficiency, while novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Isolated monovanadate structures at low surface densities are more selective for alkane dehydrogenation. High alkene yields require catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, achieving the highest alkene yield on catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density shows the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, particularly with extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, demonstrating the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. A slight excess of phosphorus stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, improving catalyst performance. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives are also crucial for optimal catalyst composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. High Mo loadings led to polymolybdate dominance, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Ammonia-treated catalysts featured well-dispersed tetrahedral monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, achieving high selectivity in oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics to phenol. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, indicating potential for efficient organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to aromatics, a key strategy in methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied to improve catalyst performance. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect processes rely on synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved with PtCrO3/HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions. Transition metal ion activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits, and two-step routes over supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation methods and vanadium loadings, are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation is exothermic, reaching temperatures above 873 K. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their performance is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 enhance acidity and catalytic activity, critical for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for petrochemical processes due to their ability to operate under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and subsequent calcination, it yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species. This innovation is pivotal for converting abundant natural gas reserves, primarily methane, into valuable organic compounds such as methanol and formaldehyde. The activation mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond, exacerbated by interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, characterized by isolated MoO42species, significantly enhances formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface are crucial for CO selectivity, contributing to the catalyst's superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, exceeding reactant levels. However, these barriers are notably lower in practice, influenced by complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination and the use of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, significantly enhancing the efficiency of alkane transformations in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, catalyzed by ZSM-5, is pivotal in converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, promoting hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Multifunctionality is essential for design and mechanism understanding but not solely sufficient. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is also influenced by C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerization over acidic sites and dihydrogen's role in shifting equilibrium toward propylene formation explain higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Methane activation is enhanced by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial value of these catalysts for stable, non-oxidizing dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that while both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate propane's CH bond, the overactivity of the terminal O site hinders propene release, a key factor for efficient catalysis. An ideal catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zn2+ enhances strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Ga+, in contrast, facilitates weak adsorption, causing ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, and are crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development, pivotal for advancing methane conversion, boosts selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite enhance methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. On Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, vanadia is highly dispersed below 7 VOx/nm2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2 at higher densities. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn, affecting hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, as reoxidation at high temperatures yields a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Catalyst pretreatments significantly influence performance, with reoxidized forms favoring aromatics over methane. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within zeolites, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation into products. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen, and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This boosts propene and aromatic production while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Sequential H-atom release limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates on H-ZSM5. Ga and Zn species significantly contribute to industrial processes by increasing desired product yields and valuable H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically dehydrogenation. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and less favorable carbenium activation due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate the ethane CH bond rupture, a critical step with computed activation energies, enhancing selectivity towards aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offers an alternative to conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts reported over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is shaped by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Critical are the interactions between Mo and transition metals with zeolite supports, the role of Mo species in HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity, and the effects of metal loading on reactivity and stability. Preparation methods, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly impact performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and introducing Mo species alters the zeolite's acid sites. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters on fully covered oxide surfaces for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites, particularly Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for optimal olefin selectivity. Selectivity to ethene from ethane exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products from butane. Catalysts exhibit tetrahedral VO4 at low V loadings, favoring selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, and octahedral VO6 at higher loadings. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loadings, significantly impact efficiency. These findings are pivotal for optimizing alkane transformations in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being crucial. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, catalyzed by monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, involves hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are significantly higher on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene formation. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia surfaces exhibit greater activity than silica-supported monomers, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence methane conversion and methanol selectivity. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but reduce methanol selectivity (Quote 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures (Quote 11), but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically significant centers depend on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric VO4 species are active, with polymerized species more extensively reduced. Catalysts' selectivity is influenced by the oxide support, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Selectivity to propylene correlates with basicity and MO bond energy. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, and microporous materials are promising for this purpose. Molybdenum oxide-based catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their performance can be optimized by controlling Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and influencing CH bond activation steps, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The feed's redox properties influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state is contingent on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability, are critical steps. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, influences catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation over hydrogen transfer. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption, forming Zn-alkyl intermediates that boost H/D exchange and dehydrogenation. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds, leading to efficient alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy uncovers structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with gallium species forming multinuclear oxygenated complexes. Binuclear gallium-oxo species cleave CH bonds, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination enhance H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lived on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species exhibit different reactivities based on the specific oxide support, preparation methods, and the presence of surface Lewis and BrCnsted acid sites. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives enhancing hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions. The unique characteristics of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by active site nature, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, addressing deactivation through novel regeneration methods. These catalysts enable light alkane activation under mild conditions, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivity. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density, leading to the highest olefin yields on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, especially gallium, activate alkanes, with water promoting reactive hydrolyzed species. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl ions, enhanced by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by preparation methods affecting morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' preparation critically impacts methane to formaldehyde conversion. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-washed catalysts, with monomeric Mo species, offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production. Polymolybdate species are more reactive in methane activation, yet they compromise formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species demonstrate higher formaldehyde selectivity, albeit with lower methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Efficiency hinges on catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, underscoring their significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to aromatics via dehydrocondensation on transition metal-supported zeolites is critical. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports affects active species and mechanisms. Oxygen use leads to deep oxidation, necessitating oxygen-free transformations to suppress CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a key catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu boosting activity. Zeolite micropore modification is widely studied. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling since 1982 offers direct conversion. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step higher hydrocarbon transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is due to surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, reaching temperatures of 873 K, vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces are critical. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both isolated and polymerized, maximizes propene selectivity and activity in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals in HZSM-5 enhance acidity, with the acidity ratio increasing from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5, which is essential for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG and olefin manufacture, offering economic benefits through mild reaction conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, surpassing traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially vital due to extensive natural gas reserves. Methane activation commences with CH bond weakening on the zeolite surface. The catalyst's isolated MoO42species, achieved through grafting without water, enhance formaldehyde yield. Formaldehyde selectivity is contingent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, affecting the catalyst's performance in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which can be mitigated by complex reactions involving O2 adsorption. Catalyst support is crucial for lowering propane adsorption barriers, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure and conditions in alkane transformations, especially in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including ZSM-5, Ga-ZSM-5, and GaZn-ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes, such as propane and butane, are independently converted. ZSM-5 catalyzes dehydrogenation, transforming light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. Aromatization yields light alkenes and BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 improving BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, favoring gallium to prevent zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, acting as a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations as strong Lewis sites for hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification in H-MFI zeolite induces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium's selective oxidation ability (Quote 1) and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhancing catalyst efficiency. Multifunctionality (Quote 4) aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, while the type of C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) are critical factors. These elements are essential for industrial applications, ensuring product stability and reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, leading to propylene and dihydrogen under dehydrogenation. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, with low pressures favoring hydrogen evolution and high pressures promoting hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which can aromatize further. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites are critical for alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion to benzene, addressing the challenge of natural gas resource utilization. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 under non-oxidizing conditions significantly enhances catalytic activity and selectivity. Higher methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, highlighting the role of metal cations in methane activation. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed, underlining the industrial importance of these catalysts for achieving high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) ease propene production by weakening propoxide binding, essential for balancing CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts distinctly activate ethane, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, strongly adsorbing ethane and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are crucial for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency and selectivity are significantly influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, all critical for higher selectivity and longer catalyst life in industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and VOx surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with higher VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decline. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-Zn exhibits a quasi-equilibrium dehydrogenation process, unlike the rate-controlled process over ZSM-5-H. ZSM-5-Zn's BTX selectivity slightly increased with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation to Ga3+, significantly impact aromatization activity and selectivity. Reduced catalysts are active for propane aromatization, but reoxidized materials are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, and the dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios. Optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, increasing H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting propene formation. This selective H-atom removal is vital for high H2 selectivity from light alkanes in industrial processes, as evidenced by enhanced deuterium incorporation and increased aromatic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: CH bond alkyl activation and less efficient carbenium activation. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, initiating the process. Carbenium activation faces a high barrier, making it less favorable. These insights optimize zeolite catalysts for aromatization processes, highlighting the efficiency of CH bond activation over carbenium activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is a significant challenge, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offering a potential alternative to conventional processes. The nature and dispersion of metal oxides, such as in MoO3/SiO2 and W/HZSM-5 catalysts, profoundly affect catalyst behavior, impacting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show high selectivity with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts, while formaldehyde selectivity in W/HZSM-5 catalysts is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency enhanced by optimized conditions and catalyst modifications. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal for catalytic activity and aromatics formation. Select metal loadings improve reactivity and stability, influenced by preparation methods and calcination temperatures. Reaction conditions significantly affect performance. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory, as it clarifies the elemental reaction pathway and the status of Mo species during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, affecting catalytic activity, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, impacting selectivity. Acid site nature changes with vanadium loading, influencing the catalyst's industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are pivotal in alkane transformations, with CH bond activation being central. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, where hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after OVV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show greater activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, as seen with Fe-HZSM-5, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity, about 74%, is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at 350°C, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly than carbon dioxide, but methanol oxidizes to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide more quickly than with hydrogen form catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes, which balances surface VOx species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and substituting N2O for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Alkane/O2 ratios affect the extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically significant centers. Support materials significantly impact performance, with silica-supported vanadium oxide showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania, primarily due to reduced propane combustion. Additives, such as P, K, Ca, and others, modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity, with the order of increasing selectivities following the order of increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, exhibit increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance, with basic oxides inhibiting the initial reduction of MoOx and slowing the rate-determining CH bond activation step, while also increasing selectivity to propylene by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the catalyst's surface oxidation state, which is determined by the feed's redox properties. The change in vanadium's valence state, governed by the feed's redox potential and the rates of catalyst oxidation and reduction, is pivotal. The P:V ratio significantly impacts redox properties and selectivity/activity. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for selectivity in n-butane oxidation, and the P:V ratio determines catalyst selectivity and activity in the n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction. Surface oxygen concentrations support the mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects and highlight the reactivity and interaction of the two hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn facilitate H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates CH bond breakage and formation, with alkanes adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted sites. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, vital for catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces promote the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, boosting ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated species, significantly improving dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports and remains stable under reducing and reaction environments. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, featuring a terminal V=O bond and bridging V-O-support bonds, are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes of supported vanadia catalysts are completely reversible. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports possess surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring one surface vanadia site are not sensitive to surface vanadia coverage, whereas reactions requiring multiple sites are sensitive. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of reactions, though the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency through active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, yielding valuable products. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions boosts efficiency and yields, addressing deactivation through novel regeneration methods, which prolongs catalyst life and enhances industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts boost alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Surface density impacts the ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates differently for ethane and propane, with higher selectivity observed in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation are similar, with propene formation being more favorable than ethene. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium in MFI zeolites, enhance alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. GaO+ ions, formed by Ga+ species oxidation in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide, significantly boost dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+ ions, and water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, and low-temperature treatment enhances performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or aqueous ammonia treatment, exhibit distinct activity in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation yields polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loadings, which block zeolite channels and activate methane but result in low formaldehyde selectivity. Ammonia-treated catalysts, rich in tetrahedral monomeric Mo=O sites, show lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports enhancing efficiency. Oxygen is critical for deep oxidation in many methane conversion processes, but strategies aim to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity and stability boosted by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been studied for improved catalyst performance. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been researched since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts transform methane into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions influence catalyst activity in the sequence: Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts in alkane transformations, notably propane oxidative dehydrogenation, are influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings favor VO6 octahedra. This exothermic reaction reaches 873 K in concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga, Fe, and Zn incorporated into HZSM-5, enhance alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions by forming active species and increasing acidity. Efficiency peaks with a higher ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, as exemplified in the transition from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are crucial for industrial processes like MTG and olefin manufacture, offering mild conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields. Selectivity and conversion are optimized by the strength and density of acid sites and metal stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst excels in methane partial oxidation (MPO), outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, featuring highly dispersed MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to abundant natural gas reserves. The activation mechanism begins with CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting avoids water, yielding isolated molybdenum(VI) oxo species with high dispersion, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show unexpectedly high energy barriers, contrasting with experimental data. Support for vanadium oxide catalysts is critical, as it can lower adsorption barriers and enhance efficiency, underscoring its industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, like propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using ZSM-5 catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. This conversion, including methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, isn't selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This leads to hydrogen removal via dehydrogenation followed by protonation or deuteride abstraction, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, crucial for alkane transformation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with isolated ions in a stable matrix, are pivotal for selective alkane oxidation and C-H bond activation in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Multifunctionality, though critical, is insufficient alone, and acidity-basicity balance significantly affects efficiency, highlighting their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, and regenerating the active site. Propylene can undergo further reactions over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate high efficiency in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with excellent catalytic activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo and Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, leading to increased benzene yield as methane partial pressure rises. Studies suggest a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, underscoring the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For instance, V2O5(001) activates CH bonds through various pathways, but its high activity at terminal O sites can impede propene release, highlighting the need for balanced catalyst properties. These catalysts are significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes moderate-temperature heterolytic dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates high-temperature ethane dissociation into ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct mechanisms directly influence hydrocarbon conversions and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, highlighting the catalysts' industrial importance in selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion, using FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, is critical for improving selectivity and longevity in CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition, underscoring the need for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior on supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) are influenced by vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with higher VOx density. Initial propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and exposed support sites, favoring combustion, decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and 60-70% BTX selectivity. Conversion starts with dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H, where it's rate-controlled. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn by depleting hydrogen, shifting equilibrium. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, post-pretreatment, enhance aromatization activity with gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity to Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts are more active and selective, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatics production. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state significantly affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance is influenced by pretreatments, and the addition of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium boosts aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production lacks reduced Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating reaction rates and selectivity. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This selective H-atom removal increases propene formation and H2 production with high selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes. Ga and Zn species boost H2 formation via recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in acid-catalyzed C-H bond activation, improving efficiency and reducing cracking products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation energies. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture, crucial for dehydrogenation and subsequent dehydrocyclooligomerization in ethane and propane aromatization. The high activation barrier for carbenium activation highlights its lesser role. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde being a studied alternative. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance (Quote 3). Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization (Quote 7). Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly affect performance (Quote 5). Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly influence catalytic activity. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent side reactions, with silica as the ideal support. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), containing diverse metals, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites with Mo or Zn convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while the mechanism for methane to ethylene conversion is debated. Under oxidizing conditions, M-zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, and Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% for selectivity. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled with vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, reveals hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites primarily and VOSi bridging oxygen sites secondarily. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity when part of the bulk surface, significantly impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, drive alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Catalysts on silica are more selective than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domains' properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and slowing CH bond activation, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface, impacting product formation. The transformation to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, influenced by Vv availability. High Vv content risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst redox properties are preparation-dependent, with similar selectivity at low conversion but varying performance at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's P:V ratio is critical, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyzes H atom desorption as H2, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn boosts H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies, and facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn-alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability, with Zn directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces affect reactivity, with theory guiding understanding. GaO+ species in zeolites oligomerize, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination enhance H2 desorption. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, and bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency hinges on active sites, acidity, and pore structure, with optimized composition and conditions boosting yields and selectivity. These processes are industrially significant for converting light alkanes under mild conditions, with novel regeneration techniques extending catalyst life by mitigating deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Catalysts with low vanadia surface density, featuring isolated monovanadate species, show the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. Optimal conditions for alkene yield include catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites boosts alkane transformation efficiency. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, as observed in increased hydrogen formation and acidity of bridging hydroxyl bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, with P/V ratios above stoichiometric levels stabilizing (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives affecting performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, preventing V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by Mo loading and species. Higher Mo loading leads to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Polymolybdate species enhance methane conversion but reduce formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, ammonia-treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity, underscoring the significance of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties in enhancing catalyst efficiency for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in alkane transformations, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied to improve efficiency. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. The activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation poses a challenge. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for their role in methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieving the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites boosts catalytic efficiency by enhancing acidity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites and their strength are vital for optimal performance. Reaction conditions significantly affect active species and efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for reactions like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) enhances alkane transformations, particularly converting methane to methanol or formaldehyde, a process of significant industrial interest due to methane's abundance in natural gas. Prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, the catalyst yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species after calcination, boosting formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The mechanism involves weakening methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The grafting method avoids MoO3 aggregate formation, typically seen with aqueous impregnation, leading to higher CO selectivity attributed to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides play a critical role in lowering energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations. Quantum chemical studies show high barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, over vanadium oxide, contrasting with lower experimental values for supported vanadia, underscoring the support's importance in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, convert to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, while higher alkanes transform independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatics conversion, especially BTX. Selectivity is not absolute, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates alkane transformations by regioselectively enhancing H/D exchange in propane's methyl groups. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, promoting hydrogen removal through two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification introduces regioselectivity, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially in inert matrices, excel in selective alkane oxidation, critical for metal-based catalysis. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids design and mechanism understanding but isn't solely sufficient. These insights are essential for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, as vanadium's role and the type of C-H bond activation play pivotal roles.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts efficiently activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with hydrogen's influence on the equilibrium favoring propylene formation. This process, significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks, operates under pressure-dependent conditions, highlighting its industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. The yield of benzene rises with increased methane partial pressure, following a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. Incorporating metal cations into ZSM-5 significantly boosts dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, underscoring their industrial importance in efficient methane conversion with high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release, highlighting the need for a balance in catalyst activity for optimal performance. These catalysts are vital for converting alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes moderate-temperature ethane dissociation, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium facilitates high-temperature ethane dissociation, creating ethyl and hydride fragments, leading to gallium dihydride species. These mechanisms enhance efficiency and selectivity in hydrocarbon conversions, underscoring their industrial value in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are key for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane to aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, metal state and location, and feed composition, which are crucial for optimizing these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites decrease, favoring primary combustion pathways. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar across supports when VOx structure is considered, highlighting the role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Conversion involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and reoxidation to Ga3+, significantly impact aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which yield dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium accelerates alkene dehydrogenation, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts lack framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost efficiency by overcoming sequential H-atom release limitations, enhancing dehydrogenation rates without cracking. These metals increase aromatic turnover, decrease cracking, and act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving selectivity. They accelerate propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products, and enhancing desired yields. Recombinative desorption contributes to high H2 selectivity, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, initiating dehydrogenation to alkenes, a key step in aromatization. The carbenium route, involving hydride ion abstraction, is less favorable due to a high activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by a MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity relates to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo-HZSM-5, play a critical role in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by metal loadings, preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal, altering acid sites and catalytic activity. Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures impact performance, as do pre-treatments and reaction conditions. Understanding methane dehydro-aromatization is complicated by heavy carbon deposits, and the real status of Mo species is crucial for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, with silica as the optimal support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites, including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation and direct aromatization of methane. M-exchange zeolites, especially those containing Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity to olefins peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity favors ethene over butane oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings yield tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings produce octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalyst performance in alkane transformations. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species show higher activity, but higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions is achieved with mainly tetrahedral V5+ species.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica facilitate the process, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster after readsorption on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show higher activity in bulk surfaces, impacting industrial efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), impact methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly but also accelerate its oxidation compared to hydrogen form catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of V5+ reduction depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and enhancing propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The P:V ratio impacts redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are two key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Excessive Vv leads to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhancing n-butane oxidation selectivity. Higher phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, forming aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange, lowering activation energies, and influences alkane activation through Zn alkyl species formation. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. GaO+ species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize into multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Water co-feeding increases the concentration of reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as spectroscopy and theory reveal in confined zeolite spaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is enhanced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, contributing to the catalysts' longevity. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, includes a terminal V=O bond and bridging V-O-support bonds for isolated species, with additional V-O-V bonds for polymerized species. Surface vanadia species can undergo reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Reactivity is associated with the dehydrated V(5+) state, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a pivotal role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies with the specific reactant, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic oxides, can modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The selectivity of these reactions is influenced by the type of additive, with basic additives enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and acidic additives favoring hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions, contributing to the industrial significance of supported vanadia catalysts in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is enhanced by optimizing active sites, acidity, and pore structure, leading to improved yields and selectivities. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending their operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities enhance initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion. Oxidation forms reactive GaO+ ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, showcasing the catalyst's efficiency and industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment and organic medium use lower the transformation temperature. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo loading and species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) leads to polymolybdate dominance, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, monomeric species offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, demonstrating specificity for HCOH production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion, showcasing their significance in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency enhanced by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification significantly impacts catalytic activity. Direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics, while indirect processes involve synthesis gas production. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Surface oxygen species interact with CH4, facilitating CH bond splitting. Pt-based catalysts enable two-step methane transformation, and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 achieves methane aromatization to benzene. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization, demonstrating the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces form isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches max temperatures of 873 K. High vanadium loadings and high-temperature calcination influence phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion, impacting catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity, with both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity, and the AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Incorporating Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation boosts the Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio, critical for efficiency. The acidity sequence is HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. Acid site strength, metal species' stability, and reducibility impact selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, enhancing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A novel methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, outperforms conventional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This advancement, yielding highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, is pivotal given extensive natural gas reserves, enabling methane's conversion into methanol or formaldehyde, crucial for fuel and organic synthesis. Methane activation commences with the CH bond's weakening through zeolite surface interaction, with formaldehyde selectivity influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, surpassing traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal unexpectedly high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which can be lowered by considering complex reactions like O2 adsorption. The need for a support for vanadium oxide catalysts to reduce adsorption barriers highlights its role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes through oxidative dehydrogenation. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, boosts alkane transformation efficiency through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, facilitated by Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms contribute to methyl group regioselectivity: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI suggest an alternative mechanism, differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, highlighting its unique role in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's selective oxidation capability and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are crucial. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality in catalyst design and reaction mechanism, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. These factors are essential for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, boosting benzene yield with increased methane partial pressure. Studies reveal improved catalytic activity with metal cation addition, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation, crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) demonstrates that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. Conversely, gallium shows weak adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation producing ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect hydrocarbon conversion efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used in methane conversion, exemplify how these factors impact performance, affecting efficiency, selectivity, and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). Dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization occur concurrently with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity over ZSM-5-Zn slightly increases with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration depletion, favoring BTX formation. The quasi-equilibrium of the BTX-forming dehydrogenation process over ZSM-5-Zn explains the distinct behavior of BTX selectivity with space velocity compared to ZSM-5-H. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolites enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2). They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, boosting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity without concurrent cracking. These species increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, optimizing yields of desired products. This selective H-atom removal is critical for industrial applications, enabling efficient alkane transformations and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, leading to dehydrogenation and dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 highlight the energy requirements, confirming zinc's role in enhancing selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional process. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al. with 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as W/HZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate with formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial for enhanced performance. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite support is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity. Certain metals like Ru, Pt, and W improve reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, significantly influence catalytic outcomes. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo species changing the acid sites of zeolites, affecting activity. Methane activation modes are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, notably for alkenes like propene, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window to prevent unselective reactions. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with metalalkyl species as intermediates. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, catalyzing H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, and aromatization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, enhancing activity and peaking selectivity to olefins at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products is lower in butane than in ethane. At lower V loadings, VO4 tetrahedra are observed, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Octahedral V5+ species boost activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid site nature changes with V loading, affecting catalyst performance. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide and zeolite catalysts are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is key. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation employs monomeric vanadium oxide on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity as part of the bulk surface, significantly impacting the efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in converting methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: increased temperatures elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    