I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Introduction In a collective issue in honour of professor Boldyrev,a contribution concerning the synthesis of solid (het- erogeneous) catalysts certainly deserves a place. The present contribution must refer to a chapter of the Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis published in 1996 dealing with the same subject [1].
In modern chemical and petroleum refining industries, more than 90% of the new processes rest on catalytic mechanisms. The vast majority of industrial catalysts are solids. In comparison, the proportion of non-solid catalysts (liquids and gases) is very small,according to all criteria (mass, value, size of industrial plants, etc.): they are involved in between 5 and 15% of the catalytic processes. Solid catalysts often contain two or several solid components, different in composition,porosity, specific surface area, etc., that must be carefully controlled to obtain optimal activity, select- ivity and stability in time during the catalytic reaction. A typical class of two-phase catalysts is constituted of an active phase deposited on a support, or carrier,possessing a low or, alternatively, a crucially useful catalytic activity of its own, associated with useful mechanical or other physical properties (strength, ther- mostability, heat conductivity). A typical example is that of a noble metal highly dispersed on alumina or a silica-alumina mixed oxide, for hydrocracking or isomerisation in the presence of hydrogen. In such catal- ysts, the metal possesses the hydrogenation-dehydro- genating property, and the support carries acidic sites that permit isomerisation and some selective breaking of carbon-carbon bonds. Solid catalysts correspond to many different compositions as well as diverse struc- tural and textural properties.
For suggesting the importance of the chemistry of solids and the role of a control of their reactivity, it will be sufficient to examine the typical case of ox- ides. Presently, probably more than 98% of the sup- ports used for catalyst preparation are oxides. Oxides used with or without support constitute the largest proportion of the active materials. For the present arti- cle, it does not seem necessary to make a detailed list of the properties that a catalyst must possess. Con- cerning specifically supports, it is sufficient to say that they have the following roles:(i) They permit a high dispersion of the supported phase. In newly prepared reforming catalysts, more than 50% of the platinum atoms are usually accessible 13886150/$20.00 Akadmiai Kiad, Budapest, Hungary 2007 Akadmiai Kiad, Budapest Springer, Dordrecht, The Netherlands Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry, Vol. 90 (2007) 1, 4965
PREPARATION OF HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
Synthesis of highly dispersed solids and their reactivity
B. Delmon*
CATA, Universit Catholique de Louvain, Place Croix du Sud 2/17, 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium The preparation of heterogeneous catalysts has been for many years a dynamic field of sub-nanotechnology and remains so nowa- days. The approach to preparation must be examined in function of the specific demands concerning (i) activity and (ii) selectivity,that both depend on the arrangement of atoms at a scale smaller than 0.02 nm. Adequate access of reactants to the surface must be provided. Most catalysts are used in the form of pellets or cylinders obtained by pressing, extrusion or other techniques. This im- plies a control of texture at dimension scales extending from a fraction of a nanometer to several millimetres (and sometimes more).
A third demand (iii) is resistance to ageing. In particular, stability at relatively high temperatures is necessary.
The strategy adopted in the majority of cases is to start from a material that is homogeneous in composition at the Angstrm scale, generally a liquid or a solid of complex composition, frequently amorphous. A general objective is to locate the different constituting atoms at precise positions. The main difficulty is to transform the starting precursor into a highly porous solid without segregation of different elements that would produce tiny parts with different properties.
The specific approach to catalyst preparation is based on the general concepts used for controlling the reactivity of solids.
Typical methods of general use will be examined. Chemical bonds of practically any kind can retain the elements constituting the future catalyst at the position they have in the precursor. The so-called citrate process and its variants are of wide application.
More elaborate approaches start from molecules or polymers associating the necessary elements.
Keywords: catalyst preparation, citrate method, diffusion in solids, mixed oxide catalysts, multi-component precursors, preven- tion of nucleation, reactivity of solids, segregation in solids * delmon@cata.ucl.ac.be to the reactants. The support must therefore possess a very high surface area.
(ii) The shape of the support, and especially the pres- ence of tiny pores (of diameter 15 nm) often con- nected to a red of mesopores of 520 nm, allow an even diffusion of reactants and products to and from the inside of the catalyst pellets (diameter
0.110 mm).
(iii) The support must keep its structure and porosity for months or years at temperatures currently higher than 250C, that often reach 750C in many pro- cesses. Therefore it must be composed of refractory materials (Al2O3, SiAl mixed oxides, barium hexa- aluminate).
(iv) The composition of the support must be such that the desired reaction gets efficiently catalysed.
The teachings of ceramic science are useful for satisfying demand (iii), but completely different ap- proaches are necessary for (i) and (ii).
It is clear that these demands also concern cata- lysts that are used without support. Table 1 mentions some of them. The catalysts of this category are cru- cial for the production of synthesis gas (CO conver- sion step) and energy conversion as well as in the manufacture of major intermediates in chemistry. An- other family of oxide materials, but of more complex composition, structure and texture, play a key role in the petroleum refining industry (catalytic cracking,for example with zeolites) and in chemistry (selective partial oxidation of hydrocarbons).
Catalysis is a very complex process. The cata- lytic action consists in accelerating a useful reaction at the expense of other thermodynamically possible transformations. For saving energy and raw materials,catalysts must be extremely selective. This requires that surface composition be very precisely adjusted at the scale of the elementary catalytic process, that is at the scale of molecules. This is necessary for the dif- ferent surface atoms to work in co-operation with each other (demand (iv) mentioned above). Conse- quently, one of the major challenges in catalyst prepa- ration is to synthesise highly dispersed solids (high surface area per unit mass of material) with a compo- sition uniform at the atomic scale. This demand is far from being satisfied for catalysts and supports, nei- ther in the laboratory nor in fabrication plants.
Nanotechnology certainly goes in the direction of the goal, but, as will be suggested in this contribution,other advanced concepts like molecular recognition will have to be used. Catalysts demand not only nano-scale but also Angstrm-scale control.
A typical example is that of a widespread group of materials, namely mixed oxides containing silicon and aluminium. These silica-aluminas are catalyti- cally active. Used as supports for metal sulfides that possess complementary catalytic properties, they command the transformation of more than 1 Gton/year of various intermediate products in the very first steps of petroleum refining. Angstrm-scale homogeneity is crucial, because the acidic sites pres- ent of the surface associate Si, Al and O atoms in pre- cise proportions to create the proper atomic arrange- ment determining the nature (Brnsted or Lewis) and strength of the catalytic sites, and hence selectivity.
The fact that the demands for small scale compo- sition homogeneity are not yet satisfied can be very easily illustrated in the case of coprecipitated sam- ples, where pure silica is very frequently observed and considerable fluctuations of the Si/Al ratio by factors of 2 to infinity are measured over a distance of several tens of nanometers for the best, and several micrometers for most samples [24].
This is illustrated in Figs 1 to 4, taken from data obtained with 17 different samples. These samples were prepared by either (i) co-precipitation where a solution containing salts of both elements was mixed with a base or (ii) by the solgel method, in which a mixture of alkoxides is hydrolysed. The heterogeneity comes from the different reactivity of the starting salts or, respectively, alkoxides [4]. The laboratory samples came from the same laboratory using always the same procedure (ii) [3]. With respect to the industrial samples, most of them were probably obtained by co-precipitation, but perhaps some of them using solgel or modified solgel techniques. In these investigations, the samples were dispersed in water with an ultrasonic vibrator. A drop of the resulting suspension was deposited on a thin carbon film supported on a standard copper grid. After drying, the samples were observed and analyzed by transmission electron microscopy
(TEM)
on a
JEOL-JEM
100C
TEMSCAN
equipped with a KEVEX energy dispersive spectrometer for electron- probe microanalysis
(EPMA).
The accelerating potential used was 100 kV. The first observations concerned the general aspect of the sample, looking at the whole grid. Then, different points of each particle were analyzed (2 or 3); the same procedure was used for the analysis of a total of 10 to 25 particles for each sample. The diameter of the static spot was 0.2 m.
The duration for each analysis (accumulation) varied between 60 and 240 s. The procedure is reported in detail in [4].
On the whole, the samples prepared according to the original solgel method (from alkoxides) in the laboratory are more homogeneous, but one sample (14.8% Al2O3, Fig. 14a of [4], not represented here) contained particles of pure silica. Except perhaps for compositions around 25%, the degree of heterogene- ity was similar for all solgel samples. It is under- 50
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
standable that industrial silica-aluminas examined in identical ways can exhibit substantially different de- grees of homogeneity (Fig. 4).
The necessity to have more than one component in a catalyst arises from many needs. Those linked to polyfunctionality, often required for the different steps in a reaction, were mentioned in the preceding paragraphs. Other reasons are the need to enhance the rate of some reaction steps and to inhibit unwanted side reactions, the wish to increase thermal stability,and the necessity to take advantage of observed syn- ergetic effects. From a fundamental point of view, the presence of several metal elements in a common structure permits the adjustment of the local elec- tronic properties, imposes well defined coordinations,
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
51
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
0 10 20 30 40 50 0 10 20 30 40 50 40 - 20 - 0 - 40 - 20 - 0 - 80 60 - - Si/Al mass concentration ratio Si/Al mass concentration ratio l y sample with global chemical composition
10.8% Al2O3+89.2% SiO2
aborator industrial sample with global chemical composition 10% Al2O3+90% SiO2 Randomly selected point (no.) Randomly selected point (no.) (B) Si/Al=6.439 (B) Si/Al=9.216 (extreme value on point 28 not included) (A) Si/Al=7.294 (A) Si/Al=7.949 pure sicilia (point 28) Fig. 1 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration ratio for laboratory and industry prepared samples of alumina content around 10% (Similar data were ob- tained for Si/Al around 5% or 5060%). A  Si/Al cal- culated on the basis of the global silica and alumina contents. B  the average value calculated from the Si/Al ratios experimentally measured on all the ana- lyzed points (except for the extreme values, that coud not be taken into account for calculation). Please see the text for the physical meaning of the A value [4] 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 - - 0 - 10 5 - 15 10 5 - - 0 - Si/Al mass concentration ratio Si/Al mass concentration ratio l y sample with global chemical composition
26.1% Al2O3+73.9% SiO2
aborator industrial sample with global chemical composition 24 to 26% Al2O3+76 to 74% SiO2 Randomly selected point (no.) Randomly selected point (no.) (B) Si/Al=2.398 (B) Si/Al=2.641 (A) Si/Al=2.5 (A) Si/Al=2.649 Fig. 2 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration ratio for samples of alumina content around 2526%.
Please see the legend of Fig. 1 for remaining details [4] 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 - - 0 -
1.5 -
1.0
0.5
2.0 -
1.5 -
1.0
0.5
- - 0 - Si/Al mass concentration ratio Si/Al mass concentration ratio l y sample with global chemical composition
62.2% Al2O3+37.8% SiO2
aborator industrial sample with global chemical composition 58 to 62% Al2O3+42 to 38% SiO2 Randomly selected point (no.) Randomly selected point (no.) (B) Si/Al=0.388 (B) Si/Al=0.526 (A) Si/Al=0.536 (A) Si/Al=0.588 Fig. 3 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration ratio for samples of comparable contents of silica and alumina. Please see the legend of Fig. 1 for remaining details [4] limits the extent of oxidationreduction phenomena,and may stabilize the whole catalyst by retarding sintering. Mixed oxide catalysts are used as such, or as precursors of active catalysts, for a whole range of important industrial processes, a representative selec- tion of which was given in Table 1.
Preparation of atomically homogeneous multi- component catalysts by conventional methods, how- ever, is often difficult due to three main reasons:(i) Deposition of active precursors either as a precipi- tate or onto a support often gives separate moieties,instead of a single phase of uniform chemical compo- sition.
(ii) Segregation of the active components can occur during the thermal treatment of the catalyst precursor.
(iii) The support can selectively interact with one of the active components at one or the other stage of the formation of the mixed oxide.
A good example of the latter case is the reaction of iron with silica in silica-supported iron molybdate,a fact which made impossible the use of silica as a support in the case of catalysts used for the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde. Some of the methods to overcome these difficulties in catalyst preparation will be discussed in this contribution.
Outline of the general approach In all cases, the objective is to slow down the pro- cesses able to let species migrate to form unwanted compounds or to allow them to segregate when homo- geneous mixing at the atomic level is desired. In prin- ciple, when atomically homogeneous mixtures are de- sired, gases or liquids are ideal precursors. Prac- tically, liquids are more convenient. The reason is that the ordinary liquid state has no long-range structure,and hence permits a statistical repartition or distribu- tion all over the volume of its contents at the molecu- 52
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
0 10 20 30 40 50 0 10 20 30 40 50 0 - - 0 - 20 - 15 - 1 5 0 - - 0 - 15 - 1 5 Si/Al mass concentration ratio Si/Al mass concentration ratio industrial sample with global chemical composition
13.3% Al2O3+86.7% SiO2
industrial sample with global chemical composition
13.3% Al2O3+86.7% SiO2
Randomly selected point (no.) Randomly selected point (no.) (B) Si/Al=7.033 (B) Si/Al=4.83 (A) Si/Al=5.757 (A) Si/Al=5.757 Fig. 4 Differences in nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration ratio between batches for industrial sam- ples of identical composition. Please see the legend of Fig. 1 for remaining details [4] Table 1 Some important mixed-oxide catalysts used in industry Catalyst Active phases Industrial processes Copper chromite CuCr2O4 CO conversion (low temp.), oxidations,hydrogenation,hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis Zinc chromite ZnCr2O4, ZnO methanol synthesis (high pressure) Copper/zinc chromite CuxZn1xCr2O4, CuOy methanol synthesis (low pressure) Iron molybdate Fe2(MoO4)3, MoO3 methanol to formaldehyde Iron oxide/potassium oxide KFeO2, K2Fe22O34 ethylbenzene to styrene Bismuth molybdate,other oxides+promoter oxides mixed oxides: Mo, Bi, Sb, Sn, Co, etc. propene to acrolein propene to acrylonitrile Zinc ferrite ZnFe2O4 oxidative dehydrogenation Vanadia-molybdena V2O5MoO3 solid solution benzene/butene to maleic anhydride Vanadium phosphate Mixed (VO)x(PO4)y butane to maleic anhydride Chromia -alumina CrxAl2xO3 dehydrogenation of light alkanes Mixed oxides perovskite type catalytic combustion Barium hexaaluminate BaAl12O19 catalytic combustion (support) lar scale. However, segregation almost invariably oc- curs when liquids are reacted to give solids (e.g. by precipitation, because one element usually precipi- tates before the other component or components [5]).
The fundamental reason to use of solid-state reactions is that, unlike in a liquid, the diffusion of atoms or ions in a solid is very difficult and it is practically frozen at relatively low temperatures. Figure 5 is a schematic representation of the situation inspired by the theory of the transition state. The activation necesssary for movements in the liquid state is of the order of magnitude of Van der Waals forces or hydro- gen bond strength, that is a few kJ mol1. Diffusion in solids necessitates the losening of ionic forces or the breaking of covalent bonds, the strength of which amounts to several tens to hundreds of kJ/mole.
A very crude estimation of the relative rates of the two kinds of processes with the background of the transition state picture shows that rates of reactions differ by several orders of magnitude. An additional reason is that nucleation, by favouring the formation of new phases, necessitates preliminary diffusion steps. Whenever a solid of complex composition can- not be obtained by a direct reaction, an indirect method can be tried. The situation is similar if the re- action of a supported catalytic material with the sup- port must be avoided. In both cases, all steps in the preparation that could facilitate diffusion should be avoided. This is discussed in more details in a chapter of the Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis [1] In a general way, blocking or hindering diffusion may be achieved • by making physical diffusion slower,• or by pinning the various species in their initial location in a liquid by relatively weak links (e.g. van der Waals forces, ionic forces) • or by blocking all partner at their initial position by chemical bonds.
Actually, a wide spectrum of methods exist for those purposes. Consequently a perfect classification is nearly impossible.
It may be noticed that a few catalysts are ob- tained from solid precursors by topotactic reactions (e.g. from solids of hydrotalcite structures). The start- ing compounds are mainly hydroxides, carbonates, or oxalates. The key step in preparation is therefore that of the precursor, rather than that of the catalyst itself.
This is possible if a solid can be obtained of a chemi- cal nature which differs from that of the desired solid (e.g. a hydroxide, salts of organic acids, etc.), but which contains the metallic elements in the propor- tion required by the catalyst. The key reaction is then the solid-state transformation of this hydroxide or salt to the desired oxide. Keeping the material in the solid state throughout the transformation permits a power- ful control that prevents all unwanted atomic restruc- turing in the bulk during catalyst preparation.
Solid-state chemistry, more precisely topochemistry (chimie douce), offers the additional advantage that specific structures and even textures (as for the layers of phyllosilicate in pillared clays) can be preserved intact throughout these solid-state transformations.
The following discussion also covers this case.
Actually, the potential of processes starting from solid precursors is broader. Sometimes a single start- ing phase gives solid products containing two or sev- eral phases, each of them very highly dispersed and in intimate contact with each other. This was observed in catalyst preparation. On the other hand, identifica- tion of synergetic actions between catalyst compo- nents progressively convinced catalysis scientists that the synergy actually corresponded to a co-operation between distinct phases (initially called remote con- trol [68], namely control of the catalytic properties of one phase by signals, coming from a distinct phase). This is typically the case of many oxidation,ammoxidation and related processes. The techniques based on the decomposition of solid precursors can provide intimate mixtures of phases in close contact with each other. This enhances the efficiency of phase co-operation because the signals need to travel only on short distances [9]. This occurs spontaneously in the preparation of the so-called iron molybdate (for the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde), which is an intimate mixture of MoO3 and iron molybdate, but can be controlled for obtaining better catalysts. Anti- mony oxide is essential in many selective oxidation reactions. The use of solid precursors very likely pro- duces highly dispersed Sb2O4 in intimate contact with the other component.
Now, considering both highly dispersed solids of uniform composition at the atomic scale and mixtures of intimately interdispersed phases, it must be noted that the use of solid precursors offers an important additional advantage. The transformation of solids usually allows an efficient control of the texture of the solid products that other processes do not allow. An adequate selection of reaction conditions leads to highly dispersed solids
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
53
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
solid precursor solid-state reaction precipitation catalist Harchiv starting solution Fig. 5 Schematic representation of the approximate levels of formal activation energy in diffusion in fluids (liquids) and solids possessing a defined porosity. The preparation methods described in the present section are cases that can be considered as typical, and have been selected to highlight (i) possible goals that can be reached and (ii) procedures used for reaching them.
The approach to catalyst preparation using solid precursors must take account the specificity of cata- lysts as product of the reaction compared to other solid materials. A difficulty rests in the fact that trans- forming a solid material to another may need a rela- tively high temperature. The migration of a constitu- ent inside the structure of a solid involves an activa- tion energy barrier to be overcome (Fig. 5). The Tammann temperature (taken approximatively as half the melting temperature in K) is generally believed to be that over which the atoms or ions in the bulk are sufficiently mobile. The temperature for decomposi- tion of the solid precursor must therefore be lower than this Tammann temperature. The demands are still higher for obtaining a material of high surface ar- eas as catalysts are. The Httig temperature (about one-third the melting temperature) is enough to make surface species sufficiently mobile to undergo sinter- ing or lead to particle agglomeration. The conclusion is that the reactions considered in this article must oc- cur at moderate or low temperatures, namely below the Tammann and Htig values. These will generally be endothermic decompositions to solids and gases.
General surveys of solid-state reactions involved in catalyst preparation or production can be seen in Courty et al. [1012], Courty and Marcilly [13, 14],and Delmon and de Keyser [15]. Several aspects of this subject are also covered and updated in the Pro- ceedings of the International Symposia on Scientific Bases for the Preparation of Heterogeneous Catalysts,held in 1975, 1978, and then every 4 years at Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium [1624].
These solid-state reactions are based on concepts pertaining to the science of the reactivity of solids.
Many of them were developed by Boldyrev, French scientists (kinetics of the transformation of solids,topotactic reactions, chimie douce), many other sci- entists in the world, and the present author [2527].
Other fundamental aspects concerning nucleation due to supersaturation of species present in liquids and the role of surface energy (GibbsThomson law) that tends to diminish dispersion and surface area are dis- cussed in the relevant literature see, for example, [1]) and reviews by Marcilly [13] and Marcilly and Franck [14].
Preparation methods: general In conformity with the title of this contribution, the objective is to describe approaches to catalyst prepa- rations using solid precursors. This excludes in prin- ciple coprecipitation and the original solgel method,widely used in ceramic and materials science. Only specific cases will be examined.
For reasons mentioned at the beginning, the pre- sentation essentially concerns oxides, by far the most frequent case. For other catalysts (examples are: car- bides [28], nitrates [29, 30], oxynitrides [31], phos- phides [32]), mixed oxides usually serve as precur- sors and homogeneity is still more crucial. Even bi- metallic catalysts have been prepared by reduction of precursors made by techniques presented in this sec- tion [33].
Several cases need to be distinguished when an atomically homogeneous multi-element catalyst is required:(i) Direct preparation by various types of reactions (e.g. precipitation). There are very few examples. In practice, when using precipitation, perfect homogene- ity is only possible if an oxoanion, e.g. a molybdate or a vanadate, reacts with a cation to produce the precip- itate. The stoichiometry is dictated by the chemistry of this reaction and has little flexibility.
(ii) A two-step process, through preparation of an- other type of homogeneous solid of exactly the same composition (e.g. carbonate, hydroxide, oxalate or other precursors, for making finally an oxide) and, in a second step, thermally activating a solid-state reac- tion of this precursor.
(iii) Preparation of a solid approximately homoge- neous followed by solid-state transformation, hoping that a higher homogeneity will be achieved during a second step.
The first category correspond to very specific cases and do not need special comments. Here, atten- tion is given to both other categories. The discussion is organised according to the technique used.
A general comment has to be made here. The strategy consisting of starting from a homogeneous solid precursor and transforming it to the desired cata- lyst is only successful if diffusions in the solid state potentially leading to segregation are made difficult.
This requires that only precursors decomposing to the final solid at low temperature, below the Tammann or Httig temperatures, be used. On the other hand, for reasons that cannot be presented here in full detail, it is advantageous that the solid precursor decomposes with production of large quantities of gases. In prac- tice, hydroxides, carbonates, hydroxocarbonates, ni- trates, and salts of carboxylic acids (formates, oxa- lates, acetates, citrates, etc.) satisfy both require- ments. The main reason is that a coupling between the solid-state transformation and the formation of pores is necessary and the formation of pores is obviously promoted by the evolution of gases. Coupling effects 54
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
in catalyst preparation are discussed in several arti- cles [25, 27, 34].
One can essentially distinguish two steps in the procedure: the preparation of a homogeneous solid precursor and the careful decomposition of this pre- cursor to the oxide. For the first step, it is crucial to avoid the segregation of the oxide species into sepa- rate solid phases. This is usually achieved by:(i) Physical methods such as evaporation to dryness,drying by vaporization, freeze-drying, and crystalli- zation. For the reasons explained above, the operation should be extremely rapid.
(ii) A physico-chemical method like some gelation methods.
(iii) Chemical methods such as precipitation,coprecipitation, oil-drop, oil-up, and complexation.
Oil-drop and oil-up involve processes pertaining to categories (ii) and (iii).
This reflects the classification concerning the methods mentioned at the beginning, that can be used for slowing down diffusion processes.
However, the considerable development of het- erogeneous catalysts has led to innumerable varia- tions around the most frequently used techniques and combinations between techniques:micro-emul- sions+oil drop, supercritical precipitation [19, 20],impregnation of high surface area solids that can be later eliminated by combustion,complexation+ spray-drying, etc. [1621, 3437]. We shall adopt a classification based on the techniques, rather than on fundamental mechanisms of action.
Dry methods One common method to prepare mixed-oxide cata- lysts is to grind or ball-mill them together, either dry or in a wet slurry; this is followed by calcination to temperatures of 6001000C. The operation may be repeated several times. In the past, catalysts for the styrene process were generally prepared in this way from KOH and oxides of Fe and Cr and other (propri- etary) promoter components. The solid-solid reaction during calcination can be accelerated by priming or catalyzing by a small amount of the product premixed with the reactant oxides, presumably for nucleating the desired phase. Ammonia synthesis catalysts which are prepared by mixing the components in the molten state do not pertain to this section, strictly speaking. A fluid energy mill, operated with steam injection at 400700C and 515 bar steam pressure,is applied in some cases. Some other techniques, used only rarely, are dry chemical oxidation of alloys, and electrolytic deposition. In general, the dry methods mentioned in this section give solids with a low sur- face area.
Wet methods Coprecipitation The most common method for mixed-oxide catalyst preparation is crystallization or precipitation or coprecipitation in solution of a precursor form (hy- droxide, oxide, insoluble salt) of the catalyst [1].
Other specific steps, for example either addition of an extra component or its removal by partial extraction,may sometimes be necessary to adjust the final cata- lyst composition and ensure homogeneity.
One of the most studied cases was that of hydroxo-carbonates used for preparing catalysts con- taining copper and zinc or chromium with additional elements (e.g. Co or Al). These catalysts are used for making synthesis gas and methanol. The precursors are mixed compounds with flexible composition [12] with the following structures:hydrotalcite
M
M
6 2+ 3 3+ +(OH)16CO3·4H2O (M representing metals of valence 2 or 3), malachite Cu Zn
(OH) CO
2x 2+ x 2+ 2 3 and auricalcite Cu Zn
(OH) (CO
2x 2+ x 2+ 6 3) 2 [12, 3841].
Precipitation (or simple crystallization) involves two main steps,nucleation and growth [12, 13, 4247]. At the nucleation stage, very small crystals of the solid phase are formed; these have a high specific surface area and high surface energy,and hence are unstable. Below a certain critical nuclei size, the free energy of formation of the solid phase is less than its surface energy and the new phase is ther- modynamically unstable. Above this critical size, the solid particles can grow. According to the conditions,this growth step is mainly controlled by interface or diffusion phenomena. The first case generally corre- sponds to the formation of complicated solid struc- tures. The second is more common in the precipita- tion processes used in catalyst preparation. An over- view is given in


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the solid-state synthesis method and impregnation method for preparing doped oxide materials, discussing how key factors such as dopant loading and calcination temperature influence the structural characteristics and catalytic performance. Additionally, explain how techniques like X-ray diffraction (XRD) can be used to confirm successful doping and characterize the resulting materials, using specific examples such as Sr0.9La0.1Ti1–xTaxO3 and copper-doped ceria catalysts for CO oxidation.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 