<quotes>

[1] "The BS-1 catalyst was synthesized from a solvent-free crystallization strategy in the presence of tetrapropylammonium (TPA+) hydroxide from a synthesis gel at 180°C for 3 days."
[2] "Such a structure not only efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane to promote dehydrogenation but also hinders full boron hydrolysis during catalysis."
[3] "The framework boron species were further identified by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) of BS-1 under vacuum at different temperatures, showing bands at 905 to 915 and 1380 to 1400 cm−1, which characterize the isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination in the zeolite framework, respectively."
[4] "The 2D 11B11B proton driven spin diffusion (PDSD) homonuclear correlation spectrum (Fig. 2C), where the off-diagonal signal assigned to spatial correlations of different boron species was undetectable."
[5] "The isotope-labeled experiment also confirmed the importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction."
[6] "The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure also contributes to the reaction activity illustrated by the results in smaller model without a zeolite framework (fig. S56), which shows a higher TS1 energy barrier at 1.700 eV, as indicated by the stronger van der Waals interaction (fig. S57) in the reduced density gradient isosurface."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The BS-1 catalyst was synthesized using a solvent-free crystallization strategy in the presence of tetrapropylammonium hydroxide from a synthesis gel at 180°C for 3 days. This structure not only efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane to promote dehydrogenation but also hinders full boron hydrolysis during catalysis. The framework boron species were identified by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) under vacuum at different temperatures, showing bands at 905 to 915 and 1380 to 1400 cm−1, which characterize the isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination in the zeolite framework, respectively. The 2D 11B11B proton driven spin diffusion (PDSD) homonuclear correlation spectrum showed no off-diagonal signal assigned to spatial correlations of different boron species. The isotope-labeled experiment confirmed the importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to the reaction activity, as indicated by the stronger van der Waals interaction in the reduced density gradient isosurface.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.BS-1催化剂是在180°C下，使用无溶剂结晶策略，在四丙基铵氢氧化物的存在下，从合成凝胶中制备3天。这种结构不仅有效地激活了分子氧和丙烷，促进了脱氢，而且在催化过程中阻止了硼的完全水解。通过在不同温度下真空下的傅立叶变换红外光谱(FTIR)对BS-1的框架硼物种进行了鉴定，显示了905至915和1380至1400 cm−1的带，这分别表征了在沸石框架中具有四面体和三角形配位的孤立硼物种。二维11B11B质子驱动自旋扩散(PDSD)同核相关光谱没有显示不同硼物种的空间相关性的离对角信号。同位素标记实验确认了羟基对反应的重要性。沸石微孔结构的限制效应促进了反应活性，如在减少密度梯度等高面上的较强范德华相互作用所示。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
