element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 2/Issue 11Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
RESEARCH ARTICLEOctober 2, 2012
Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane on Cobalt Oxide (Co3O4) Nanoparticles: The Effect of Particle Size on Activity and Selectivity
Eric C. Tyo†Chunrong Yin‡Marcel Di Vece†Qiang Qian§Gihan Kwon‡Sungsik Lee∥Byeongdu Lee∥Janae E. DeBartolo∥Sönke Seifert∥Randall E. Winans∥Rui Si⊥Brian Ricks⊥Simone Goergen⊥Matthew Rutter⊥Branko Zugic⊥Maria Flytzani-Stephanopoulos⊥Zhi Wei Wang⊗Richard E. Palmer⊗Matthew Neurock*§¶Stefan Vajda*†‡○
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
The oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane by cobalt oxide nanoparticles was studied via temperature programmed reaction combined with in situ grazing incidence X-ray absorption spectroscopy and grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering and theoretical calculations on model Co3O4 substrates. Both 6 and 12 nm Co3O4 nanoparticles were made through a surfactant-free preparation and dispersed on an Al2O3 surface formed by atomic layer deposition. Under reaction conditions the nanoparticles retained their oxidation state and did not sinter. They instead underwent an assembly/disassembly process and could reorganize within their assemblies. The selectivity of the catalyst was found to be size- and temperature-dependent, with larger particles preferentially producing cyclohexene at lower temperatures and smaller particles predominantly resulting in benzene at higher temperatures. The mechanistic features thought to control the oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and other light alkanes on cobalt oxide were established by carrying out density functional theory calculations on the activation of propane, a surrogate model alkane, over model Co3O4 surfaces. The initial activation of the alkane (propane) proceeds via hydrogen abstraction over surface oxygen sites. The subsequent activation of the resulting alkoxide intermediate occurs at a second surface oxygen site to form the alkene (propene) which then desorbs from the surface. Hydroxyl recombination results in the formation of water which desorbs from the surface. Oxygen is necessary to regenerate the surface oxygen sites, catalyze C–H activation steps, and minimize catalyst degradation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2012 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Catalysts
Metal Oxide Nanoparticles
Nanoparticles
Oxides
Oxygen
Keywords
what are keywords
Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Cyclohexane
Cobalt Oxide
Co3O4
Size-Effect
In Situ X-Ray Scattering
GISAXS
In Situ X-Ray Absorption
GIXANES
Temperature-Programmed Reaction
Transmission Electron Microscopy
Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy
X-Ray Diffraction
Mass Spectrometry
Assembly
Density Functional Theory
Alkane Activation
Alkene Activation
SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the Operando and In Situ Studies of Catalysis special issue.
# Author Contributions
Equally contributing (first) authors.
Introduction
The catalytic dehydrogenation of cyclohexane is a critical step in the reforming of naphtha, and is important in the commercial production of benzene where significant quantities of cyclohexane that remain in the product stream must be removed at a considerable expense. (1-3) While the complete dehydrogenation of cyclohexane is necessary for the production of aromatics and fuels, the selective dehydrogenation to cycloalkene intermediates is often more desirable as they provide the necessary building blocks for chemicals. The selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to cyclohexene, for example, is a key step in the production of adipic acid that is used in the production of nylon. Oxygen is often used as coreagent to enhance dehydrogenation as it lowers the temperature of activation and inhibits coke formation and can provide for direct oxygen functionalization. (4-8) Great care must be taken in such oxidative dehydrogenation and functionalization processes to minimize the overoxidation to CO2. (3)
Much of the reported literature on the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane is focused on the use of supported transition metal particles (9, 10) whereas the oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane is more typically carried out on oxides. (4-8) Earth abundant metal oxides would be significantly cheaper and provide a more viable alternative especially in the conversion of fuels. More recent studies suggest that nanometer-sized cobalt oxide particles are highly active for carrying out CO oxidation (11) and may be quite active for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes. For example, nanocrystalline Co3O4 with an average size of 12 nm shows 100% selectivity toward the conversion of propane to propene under ambient pressure and temperature conditions. (12) At higher temperatures, however, the total oxidation of propane prevailed. (13-15) The reason for the special reactivity of these nanocrystalline clusters is still unclear, but was suggested to be related to the change in reducibility (12) of Co3O4 and the abundance of superficial O– species. (15) Furthermore, investigations of cobalt nanoclusters have shown strong interactions between oxidized Co27 cluster and the support and suggest that these effects help to promote ODH of cyclohexene. (16)
In addition to the conversion of cyclic compounds, nanocatalysts have also been studied for the activation of jet fuel. (17) Here, catalytic endothermic pathways, which may involve dehydrogenation or cracking during the initial activation steps of the fuel, offer promising applications in jet engines and gas turbines by using soluble catalysts to enhance the catalytic combustion while increasing the heat sink. Highly active platinum group metal catalysts (18) belong among the candidate materials; however, the significant cost of these materials, nonrecyclability, and their low solubility in jet fuel may prohibit their application. Since for example cobalt oxide (Co3O4) is an active catalyst for the complete oxidation of light hydrocarbons, (19) studies of the activation of cyclohexane (viewed as model jet fuel molecule) on cobalt oxide nanoparticles should provide important insights toward the feasibility of developing metal oxide catalysts composed of cheap and earth abundant materials for such applications.
Herein we examine the catalytic properties of Co3O4 nanoparticles of two main sizes, 6 nm vs 12 nm, deposited on ALD formed Al2O3 supports with respect to cyclohexane ODH to benzene. In a unique method established by Vajda and colleagues, temperature programmed reactions (TPRx) are performed in combination with in situ grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering (GISAXS) and grazing incidence X-ray absorption spectroscopy (GIXAS) investigations to study catalytic activity while observing changes in morphology and chemical state. GISAXS is ideal to investigate shape, size, and spatial changes (20) in particles ranging in size from about 1 nm to several micrometers. (20-29) In situ GIXAS is used to monitor the changes in oxidation state during reaction to aid in determining the active catalytic sites. (22) Previous publications have demonstrated the benefits of combining TPRx studies with in situ GISAXS and GIXAS while probing relevant catalytic systems (23, 30-32) for the identification of the size, shape, and oxidation state of the catalytically active species.
First principle density functional theoretical calculations were carried out in this work to gain further insights into the active sites and mechanisms that control alkane C–H bond activation and the role of oxygen in catalyzing ODH. The product distribution of cyclohexane dehydrogenation over Co3O4 surfaces is rather diverse involving the formation of cyclohexene, benzene, water, oxygenated intermediates, and CO2. Modeling all of these paths would be rather challenging. Instead we focus herein on the paths relevant for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and other alkanes which include the primary C–H bond activation, subsequent dehydrogenation steps, desorption of alkenes and the regeneration of active surface sites. To simplify the simulations in order to carry out a reliable number of calculations with reasonable computing expenditures, we have focused on the activation of propane as a surrogate for cyclohexane. A Born–Haber cycle analysis was used to show that the activation of different alkanes over the same metal or metal oxide catalysts can be related to the changes in the gas phase reaction energies that result from changing the reactant. Iglesia et al., (33) for example, showed that the activation barriers for the reactivity of ethane and oxygen over Pt across a wide range of different alkane/O2 ratios could be directly predicted from the results for the reactivity of methane by solely shifting the energies to account for the difference in the gas phase C–H bond dissociation energies between methane and ethane. Density functional theory (DFT) results discussed herein show that the gas phase activation of the secondary C–H bonds of propane and cyclohexane are within 5 kJ mol–1 of one another consistent with experimental results. (34) We would therefore expect their catalytic activation barrier to be quite similar. We will show later in the paper that the actual DFT calculated differences for the secondary C–H bond activation of propane and cyclohexane over Co3O4 are within 7 kJ mol–1.
Experimental Methods
Synthesis
The Co3O4 nanoparticles were synthesized hydrothermally in a mixture of water and ethanol using the starting materials Co(CH3COO)2·4H2O and ammonia. The surfactant-free preparation method is based on a previously reported synthesis. (35) Control over the size of particles synthesized was enabled through adjusting the ratio of ethanol to water, thus allowing for the creation of samples with narrow ranges in size. The 6 and 12 nm cobalt oxide nanoparticles were dispersed on Al2O3 supports. The Al2O3 supports were prepared by atomic layer deposition (ALD) on top of naturally oxidized silicon wafers (SiO2/Si(100)). (5, 32) The cobalt loading of the samples was 19.4 and 15.4 μg for the 6 and 12 nm samples, respectively, as determined through inductively coupled-plasma mass-spectrometry (ICPMS) after dissolving the samples.
Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM)
TEM was performed on a JEOL 200cx at 200 kV. For high resolution imaging, a JEOL 2010 was used. Powder samples were suspended in ethanol via sonication and a single drop of the corresponding suspension was applied to a carbon film-coated copper grid. The average nanoparticle size was estimated from about 50 nanoparticles in multiple images.
X-ray Diffraction (XRD)
XRD analysis was performed on a Rigaku 300 instrument with a rotating anode generator and a monochromatic detector. Cu Kα1 radiation was used with a power setting of 50 kV and 250 mA. Typically, a scan rate of 2°·min–1 with a 0.02° step size was used.
Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM)
The lattice structure of the nanoparticles was determined by atomic-scale scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) (32), (36) which was carried out with a 200 kV JEM2100F (JEOL) instrument fitted with a spherical aberration corrector (CEOS GmbH), allowing a spatial resolution of 1 Å to be achieved. The STEM signal was collected with a high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) detector with inner and outer collection angles of 62 and 164 mrad, and a convergence angle of 19 mrad. (37, 38) The electron microscopy samples were prepared by drop-casting a small drop of solution onto a copper TEM grid covered with an amorphous carbon film.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic of system setup for combined in situ GISAXS, GIXAS, and TPRx experiments. Reprinted from ref 16.
Combined Temperature Programmed Reaction (TPRx) with in Situ Grazing Incidence Small-Angle X-ray Scattering (GISAXS) and Grazing Incidence X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy (GIXAS)
The samples were studied using a unique system combining TPRx with in situ GIXAS and GISAXS (Figure 1) developed at the 12-ID-C Beamline of the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory. The experimental setup and data analysis has been previously reported (22, 23, 29) and will be briefly described herein. The samples were positioned on a ceramic heater (Momentive Performance Materials Inc.) in a reaction cell having an internal volume of 25 cm3. The heater allows for heating of the samples to 600 °C and higher temperatures. The temperature was measured with a K-type thermocouple attached to the edge of the heater surface. The cell was mounted on a computer controlled goniometer and equipped with Kapton windows to facilitate X-ray transmission. During TPRx experiments, the reaction cell was first evacuated to about 10–1 mbar and flushed several times with pure helium, after which the reactants, cyclohexane (4000 ppm in He) and pure O2, were introduced. During the ODH studies a mixture of cyclohexane and O2 were flowed (30 and 1.2 sccm rates respectively) into the cell to produce a cyclohexane to oxygen ratio of 1:10 respectively. A gas-mixing unit consisting of calibrated mass flow controllers (Brooks model SLA5850) was used to combine the gases and control the rate of flow into the reaction cell. Additionally, the pressure within the cell was held at 800 Torr. The K-type thermocouple was attached to a temperature controller (Lakeshore model 340) which controlled the output of a KEPCO Power Supply (model ATE 55–5DM) for precise temperature regulation of the heater over the 25 °C-300 °C range used in this investigation. After 30 min at 25 °C, the temperature of the cobalt oxide samples was ramped in steps of 40 °C with 15 min intervals from 25 to 300 °C. A low heating rate was used (<10 °C per min) so thermal equilibrium could be reached between the heater and the sample. The final temperature of 300 °C was held for 1 h followed by a continuous decrease to room temperature in 20 min.
The reaction products were analyzed using a differentially pumped mass-spectrometer (Pfeiffer Vacuum Prisma QMS 200) that was continuously sampled from the reaction cell. To observe product formation and the depletion of reactants, mass spectra were recorded every 52 s, which enabled monitoring of the evolution of the reactants and products as a function of temperature and time; calibrated gas mixtures (certified analytical grade mixed gas, Air Gas Inc.) were used to calibrate the mass spectrometer. An uncertainty of ∼2% is estimated for the ion current. Background correction of the TPRx data for the samples was performed using TPRx data obtained from blank supports operated under identical temperature ramp and reaction conditions as the cluster samples. Turnover rates (TOR) were calculated based on the total cobalt loading as well as on the estimated number of reactant exposed surface atoms of the nanoparticles. The STEM analysis determined the particles were roughly cubic and thus the number of surface cobalt atoms exposed to reactant was based on 5 sides of a cube. The average size of the particles, 6 and 12 nm, were used in the calculation to represent the smaller and larger particles respectively.
GISAXS, sensitive to particles in the surface region, (21) was used to monitor changes in cluster size and shape during TPRx. In addition, it can provide the particle size distribution, distance between particles, and average aspect ratio of metal particles. The GISAXS experiments were performed using X-rays of 8 keV energy. The X-ray beam was scattered off the surface of the sample at near the critical angle (αc = 0.15) of the substrate. A GISAXS image was recorded every 10 min with a 1024 × 1024 pixel two-dimensional CCD detector (MarCCD or mosaic CCD). The two-dimensional X-ray images were analyzed by taking cuts in the qxy direction for horizontal information. Scattering vectors q are calculated from (4π/λ) sin θf where θf is the scattering half angle and λ is the wavelength of the X-rays (39). (40) The collected data were processed and analyzed by the FitGISAXS package. (41) The size distributions were obtained from the GISAXS pattern analysis with the local monodisperse approximation (LMA) (42) and with a log-normal distribution function. GIXAS spectra were also collected in 10 min intervals by a 4-element fluorescence detector (Vortex 4 element SDD) mounted parallel to the sample surface and perpendicular to the X-ray beam.
Computational Methods
All the calculations performed in this work were carried out using DFT with on-site correction for Coulomb interactions of d-electrons (DFT+U) as implemented in Vienna ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). (43-47) The Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) (48, 49) form of the spin-polarized generalized gradient approximation (SGGA) was used to calculate gradient corrections to the exchange and correlation energies. The interaction between the valence electrons and the core was described using the projector augmented wave method (PAW). (50, 51) The kinetic-energy cutoff for the plane wave basis set was set at 400 eV, which was sufficient to obtain well-converged energies. The Brillouin zones were sampled using the Γ-centered Monkhorst-Pack scheme. The initial magnetic moment was specified for each atom to help converge the system to antiferromagnetic configuration. (52) All of the structural optimizations were carried until the displacement forces on each of the atoms within the unit cell were converged to within 0.05 eV/Å. All of the calculated reaction energies and activation barriers for the initial activation of propane were calculated with respect to gas phase propane as reference. The detailed parameters for bulk and slab models, including the size of cells, number of layers, restriction of atom positions, and k-point mesh, are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1. Parameters for Bulk and Slab Models, Including the Size of Cells, Number of Layers, Restriction of Atom Positions, and k-Point Mesh
Co3O4 computational models size of cells a × b × c (Å) vacuum thickness (Å) number of atoms or atomic layers frozen atomic layers k-point grid
bulk 5.76 × 5.76 × 5.76   14 atoms   8 × 8 × 8
1 × 2(110) slab 8.15 × 11.52 × 18.08 12.5 5 layers 2 bottom 4 × 3 × 1
√3 × √3(111) slab 9.98 × 9.98 × 20.23 13 11 layers 8 bottom 4 × 4 × 1
Previous theoretical calculations on Co3O4 surfaces (53-56) suggest that on-site Coulomb (U) and exchange (J) interactions should be adopted to recover the effect of 3d electron correlation. In this work, the correction of on-site Coulomb repulsion in the form of Dudarev’s rotational invariant approach (57) was applied to the Co 3d electrons. The effective on-site exchange interaction parameter J̅ was set to its typical value 1 eV. (58) In Dudarev’s approach, only U =U̅ – J̅ is meaningful and needs to be carefully chosen. U = 3 eV is used herein. As shown in Figure 2, the electronic band structure calculation of bulk Co3O4 predicts a semiconducting structure. The computed band gap is 1.47 eV, which is in good agreement with experimental observations of the direct optical transition at 1.44–1.52 eV. (59-62)
Figure 2
Figure 2. DFT+U (U = 3) calculated electronic band structure near the Fermi level of Co3O4 bulk structure along several high symmetry lines in the FCC Brillouin zone.
A two-step approach which combines the nudged elastic band (NEB) (63) and the dimer (64) methods was used to isolate transition state structures and establish their corresponding energies. Depending upon the curvature of the reaction path, either 8 or 16 equally spaced images were chosen along the reaction coordinate. Each of these images were subsequently minimized to establish the minimum reaction energy path (MEP) using the NEB method until the forces on each of the atoms were less than 0.2 eV/Å. The two highest energy structures along the NEB path were subsequently used as starting points for the initial structure for the dimer method simulations, which “walks” the dimer structure uphill along the lowest potential energy path. The transition states were subsequently converged to within 0.05 eV/Å.
At room temperature, the Co3O4 structure adopts a normal spinel structure A[B2]O4, with high-spin Co2+ (d7) in tetrahedral sites (A) and low-spin Co3+ (d6) ions in the octahedral sites (B). (65) The optimized lattice constant (8.15 Å) predicted from DFT+U (U = 3 eV) calculations is within 0.8% of the experimental value (8.0845 Å). (65) The predominant and naturally occurring facets of Co3O4 are (111) and (110) surfaces. (66) Cotetr-terminated (111) and Type B (110), which is terminated with Coocta and oxygen, were used in our calculations, since both experiments (67-70) and ab initio thermodynamic calculations (56) indicate these two surface terminations are most stable at moderate oxygen partial pressures and temperatures.
Results and Discussion
A Experimental Results
To determine the structure of the nanoparticles formed through the solution phase synthesis, TEM, XRD, and aberration-corrected STEM were performed on the samples. TEM images of the obtained nanoparticles are shown in Figure 3a (smaller particles) and Figure 3d (larger particles), and the corresponding size distributions obtained on ensembles of 50 particles shown in Figures 3b and 3e, respectively. The smaller particles possess a mean size of 6 and 1.1 nm width of size distribution (fwhm), while the mean size and width of distribution of the larger particles were determined as 12 and 2 nm, respectively. It is important to note the assembly (clustering) of the nanoparticles seen in the TEM images. XRD revealed that the as synthesized smaller particles were exclusively cubic Co3O4 (Figure 3c), while the larger particles comprised a mixture of cubic Co3O4 and hexagonal CoOOH phases (Figure 3f). The samples were used in the tests as prepared, without any pretreatment.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Representative TEM image of as synthesized cobalt oxide nanoparticles of two main sizes, 6 nm (a) and 12 nm (d), and corresponding size distribution (b, and e). XRD pattern of as synthesized bulk samples: (c) 6 nm particles, (f) 12 nm particles; cubic Co3O4 (stars), hexagonal CoOOH (squares).
To determine the structure of the nanoparticles formed through the solution phase synthesis, aberration-corrected STEM was performed on the samples. Figure 4a shows a typical HAADF-STEM image of the cobalt oxide nanoparticles. Isolated particles as well as their assemblies of nanoparticles with regular shapes can be seen in these images, similar to the structures found in TEM. The characterization of the atomic structure was established by high resolution images of these particles with on axis orientation, via analysis of their projections and measurement of the lattice constants, which shows that they are generally consistent with Co3O4 spinel structures. Figure 4b provides an example, where the particle marked A is characteristic of a Co3O4 spinel structure orientated along the near ⟨112⟩ axis, and the corresponding atomic model is given in the inset.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Representative HAADF-STEM image of as prepared cobalt oxide nanoparticles of 6 nm main size; (b) high-resolution image. The inset in (b) is an atomic model of the spinel structure of Co3O4 for the cluster marked A.
In situ GIXANES was performed during the course of the reaction for both the 6 and 12 nm nanoparticles. Figure 5 presents the XANES spectra at initial 25 °C, 225 °C, 250 °C, 300 °C, and the final 25 °C for the ODH reaction with the 12 nm particles (Figure 5a), together with the spectra of cobalt standards (Figure 5b), and the corresponding derivatives of the spectra in Figure 5c and 5d. The XANES spectra (and their derivatives) of the catalyst in action at elevated temperatures, as well as after cooling back to room temperature, are all representative of a Co3O4 composition. We thus assume that the active phase in the catalytic ODH of cyclohexane is Co3O4. The initial spectrum at 25 °C presents some slightly different characteristics. The rise of the spectrum to the peak at 7728 eV is smoother than the spectrum at 250 °C. Additionally, the feature in the starting 25 °C spectrum at 7746 eV is more prominent than in the spectra obtained at higher temperatures. This feature confirms the XRD data in Figure 3f that showed the presence of a mixed cobalt phase in the as synthesized 12 nm particles. By slowly increasing the temperature in an oxygen rich environment, the catalyst transformed into Co3O4, before the point of measurable activity was reached around 200 °C. The transformation of the hydroxide fraction into Co3O4 was also confirmed by ex situ XRD performed on a control sample after reaction. Furthermore, the derivatives of the in situ XANES spectra shown in Figure 5c show the sample transforming from a mixture of Co3O4 and Co(OH)2 to pure Co3O4 as can be seen by comparison with the cobalt standard derivative spectra plotted in Figure 5d. For the 6 nm particles, GIXANES spectra reveal that Co3O4 is the prevalent oxidation state from the beginning in the as prepared sample, in accord with the XRD results shown in Figure 3c. In situ GIXANES indicated no change in the oxidation state of the 6 nm size particles during the reaction.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Co K-edge XANES spectra of the 12 nm Co3O4 nanoparticles under ODH conditions. Presented are the spectra from the starting temperature (25 °C start), at 225 °C, 250 °C, 300 °C and after cooling back the sample to room temperature (25 °C end). (b) XANES spectra of cobalt standards Co metal, Al2CoO4, Co2O3, CoO, Co(OH)2, and Co3O4. The corresponding derivatives of the spectra are shown in (c) and (d).
No change in the height of the particles was observed with in situ GISAXS during the reaction. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) performed on the samples confirmed that the height of the particles on the support corresponds to the height of the individual particles; thus, no or only negligible stacking was present on the tested samples. In contrary, analysis of the GISAXS data in the horizontal plane revealed that the apparent average horizontal size of the particles changed with temperature during the course of the reaction. The results of the analysis of the horizontal GISAXS data are shown in Figure 6, for both the 6 and 12 nm particle sizes. It is important to note that the average size reflects a particle ensemble consisting of isolated nanoparticles as well as their assemblies. As the particle ensemble reorganizes with temperature, the fractions of isolated vs assembled particles may vary. In some reported cases, such as that for subnanometer cobalt oxide particles (16, 31) the particle assemblies disintegrated after reaction when the catalyst was cooled back to room temperature. As particle assemblies are formed and internal reorganization occurs, the total surface area accessible to reactants can vary and may alter the catalyst’s performance. Similar dynamic assembly/disassembly was reported for example for germanium clusters because of their heating with the electron beam. (71)
Figure 6
Figure 6. Temperature dependent evolution of the horizontal size distribution of the 6 nm (a) and 12 nm (b) particles and their assemblies during the reaction. Select temperatures are shown for clarity. The lines in the plots indicate the main sizes identified by the analysis of the GISAXS data.
At room temperature (see Figure 6a, 25 °C start), the 6 nm sample shows a bimodal distribution of particles with peaks centered at 6.1 and 9.8 nm, and relative fractions of about 85% and 15%, respectively. Taking into consideration the estimated 15% uncertainty of the GISAXS analysis, the main size found for the isolated particles is in a very good agreement with TEM results shown in Figure 3. Heating of the sample to 65 °C leads to a slight change (∼10%) in the width of the size distributions and relative fractions of isolated and assembled particles. Further increase of the reaction temperature leads to modest additional changes in the size distribution. Interestingly, after reaction when the sample is cooled back to room temperature (Figure 6a, 25 °C end), the particle size distribution resembles the one observed at 65 °C. Thus, the catalyst responds, in a reversible manner, to the changes in reaction conditions. The evolution of the size distribution of the larger, 12 nm particles exhibits a distinctly different pattern (Figure 6b). The initial size distribution shows 11.7 nm particles (fwhm = 4 nm) as the dominant fraction, with only about 3.5% of assembled particles of 33.2 nm main size and less than 1% of assemblies with main size of 54.6 nm. At 65 °C, the particle size distribution at 11.7 nm increased by about 15%. This is accompanied by the increase of the fractions of the larger assemblies to about 8%, thus indicative of an assembly process on the entire size range. The assembly progresses with increasing reaction temperature and escalates at 225 °C. Here, the smallest main particle, in fact, ensemble, sizes grow to about 20 nm, and the fraction of the larger assemblies rises by about 20%. Again, as in the case of the 6 nm sample, the assemblies of the 12 nm nanoparticles disintegrate when the reaction is terminated. However, while the extent of assembly is relatively small for the 6 nm particles, it is significantly larger for the 12 nm particles. We hypothesize that the initial strikingly different assembly pattern observed for the 12 nm particles is most likely caused by increased mobility of the as prepared −OH terminated particles. The disintegration of the particle assemblies after reaction indicates that both catalyst systems adopt their size distribution in response to the actual reaction environment, as was also reported for the subnanometer size cobalt oxide clusters in the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene. (16, 31)
Figure 7
Figure 7. Temperature programmed reaction profiles for the ODH of cyclohexane on Co3O4 nanoparticles of 6 nm size. The masses monitored for the individual species are shown in the plot as well. The scales of each reactant and product are listed in TOR per total cobalt atom basis, carbon based. (A blank alumina support, i.e., support without clusters, tested under identical conditions showed no activity.).
A typical plot of the TPRx transients of the reactants and products detected during cyclohexane dehydrogenation are shown for the 6 nm particles in Figure 7. The 6 nm particles sample exhibited measurable catalytic activity at 225 °C as an onset of production of cyclohexene was observed. Further increases in temperature had a dramatic effect: substantial production of benzene was recorded as well as a major increase in the production of cyclohexene and cyclohexadiene. A significant consumption of oxygen that accompanies cyclohexane consumption was also observed. The absence of H2 formation in the mass spectrum confirms the output from theoretical results which indicates the formation of surface hydroxyl (−OH) intermediates. The O vacancies that result upon the desorption of water are subsequently replenished by O2 and used to abstract the next hydrogen in the cycle.
As seen in Figure 7, the activity of the 6 nm particles drops by about 15% during the 1 h spent at 300 °C, while the loss in the activity of the 12 nm particles amounts to 45% during the 1 h spent at 300 °C. ODH is known to be thermodynamically more favorable than direct dehydrogenation for processes that result in little coke formation. (72) The changes that occur in the oxidation state and the surface composition of the catalyst can lower the rate and, in some cases, even deactivate the catalyst. The tests carried out in the absence of oxygen on both the 6 and 12 nm-size catalysts resulted in no or only negligible catalytic activity. A plausible cause for this inactivity is the reduction of the surface of the Co3O4 particles that occurs under reducing conditions, as there is no oxygen to reactivate the Co sites, which is confirmed by theoretical calculations below. However, under ODH conditions, there is enough oxygen to keep the cobalt oxide in the active Co3O4 state. On the basis of the GIXANES data, this appears to be true for both samples. Indeed as Figure 5 shows, the 12 nm-sample which was originally composed of both oxide (Co3O4) and hydroxide phases, transforms into the Co3O4 phase only during reaction. Thus, the most plausible explanation for the loss of activity of the 12 nm-size sample with reaction up to 300 °C is their assembly into larger particles as the in situ GISAXS data in Figure 6 clearly shows. Such assembly of the particles into larger groups/aggregates during the course of the reaction would result in a loss in the exposed surface area of the catalyst. Hypothetically, a 2-fold loss in particle size would result in a 4-fold loss of activity if all surface sites were active for the reaction, or to about a 2-fold loss in activity if only the peripheral sites at the interface with the support were active. However, since the evolution of the particle size distributions was rather complex for both samples, an identification of the active sites cannot be made by a simple qualitative comparison of the GISAXS and TPRx data alone. This question is instead addressed below during the discussion of the turnover rates and theoretical calculations.
The TOR values for the 6 and 12 nm particle based catalysts at 225 °C and at 300 °C are given in terms of per total cobalt atom and per estimated exposed surface cobalt atom basis in Tables 2 and 3, respectively. The results reported in Table 2 for the TOR at 300 °C toward the decomposition of cyclohexane taken on a per Co atom basis are within the estimated experimental 10% uncertainty for both the smaller and the larger particles.
The ratio between the size of the 6 and 12 nm particles is 2; thus if we assume that the nanoparticles are isolated and have the same or comparable activity per surface area, the turnover rate per cobalt atom basis for the 12 nm particles should be a factor of 4 lower than that for the 6 nm particles. This would be the case if no assembly occurred. However, at the beginning of the 300 °C temperature step the observed TOR is a factor of ∼3 lower for the 12 nm particles than that for the 6 nm size particles (see Table 2.), and this ratio increases to about 5.5 after 1 h of the reaction.
Table 2. Carbon-Based TORs in Carbonaceous Molecules Consumed or Formed per Co Atom per Seconda
    per total cobalt atom TORs [mol atom–1 s–1]
    reactant consumption product formation
sample temperature [°C] TOR C6H12 TOR C6H10 TOR C6H8 TOR C6H6 TOR CO2
6 nm 300 1.06 × 10–1 2.47 × 10–2 2.38 × 10–3 8.22 × 10–2 5.05 × 10–2
  225 3.68 × 10–3 1.72 × 10–3 0 1.45 × 10–4 3.71 × 10–3
12 nm 300 3.83 × 10–2 1.03 × 10–2 5.65 × 10–4 1.58 × 10–2 5.68 × 10–3
  225 7.14 × 10–3 4.28 × 10–4 1.88 × 10–4 2.49 × 10–4 3.4 × 10–4
aTOR in molecules formed or consumed per Co atom per second, calculated on basis of the total Co loading of the sample (carbon based). The Co loadings for the 6 and 12 nm particles were 19.4 μg and 15.4 μg, respectively. The estimated uncertainty of the reported values is 10%. The TORs shown for 300 °C correspond to the values obtained at the beginning of the 300 °C step, before the ∼15% and ∼45% drop in the activity of the 6 and 12 nm particle sample, respectively. The average sizes of the particles, 6 and 12 nm, were used in the calculation to represent the 6 ± 1.1 (FWHM) nm and 12 ± 2.0 (FWHM) nm particles, respectively.
Table 3. Carbon-Based TORs in Carbonaceous Molecules Consumed or Formed Per Exposed Surface Co Atom per Seconda
    per surface cobalt atom TORs [mol atom–1 s–1]
    reactant consumption product formation
sample temperature [°C] TOR C6H12 TOR C6H10 TOR C6H8 TOR C6H6 TOR CO2
6 nm 300 1.45 × 10–1 3.37 × 10–2 3.38 × 10–3 1.13 × 10–1 6.89 × 10–2
  225 5.02 × 10–3 2.26 × 10–3 0 1.97 × 10–4 6.76 × 10–3
12 nm 300 1.61 × 10–1 4.35 × 10–2 2.37 × 10–3 6.62 × 10–2 2.38 × 10–2
  225 2.99 × 10–2 1.79 × 10–2 7.89 × 10–5 1.05 × 10–3 1.42 × 10–3
aTOR in molecules formed or consumed per exposed Co atom per second, calculated on basis of the TORs shown in Table 2 for total Co loading of the samples. As the particles were roughly cubic, the estimated number of surface atoms exposed to reactant was based on 5 sides of a cube (the atoms in the base of the particles in contact with the support were not taken into consideration) and the distance between the cobalt atoms in Co3O4.
The lower than expected activity can be understood as follows. On the basis of in situ GISAXS, at elevated temperatures, the 12 nm nanoparticles form larger particle assemblies with dynamically evolving size distributions during the course of the reaction, with a mean size around 20 nm. Having compact ∼20 nm size particles should however translate in about 16-fold drop in per atom activity. Since the observed drop in activity is only about 3–5.5 fold, it suggests that the assemblies made of the 12 nm particles must possess a perforated structure which is sufficiently permeable to the gases. The accessibility of nanoparticle walls within the assemblies is supported by the fact that the observed TORs for cyclohexane per surface atom are within the estimated experimental error for both particle sizes (see Table 3) at the beginning of the 300 °C temperature step (drops only by a factor of about 1.5 after 1 h at this reaction temperature), meaning that the actual loss of the active surface area because of the assembly of the 12 nm particles is not significant. The loose nature of the nanoparticle assemblies is also confirmed by their disintegration after the system cooled back to room temperature. Since the number of the edge atoms scale with a factor of 2 for the 12 and 6 nm particles, the observation of TORs scaling by a factor between ∼3 and ∼5.5 also suggest that the facets of the Co3O4 nanoparticles provide the active sites for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and not the particle edges. This fact is also very important for the choice of the model of the active sites in theoretical calculations.
The TOR values reported here for the consumption of cyclohexane are in good agreement with those obtained on particles dispersed on a flat SiO2 support and tested under identical reaction conditions in the same TPRx cell, as well as with TOR values obtained in tests performed using a packed-bed quartz reactor. To better assert the comparison of the obtained TOR data, it is necessary to point out the main differences between the tests executed in the TPRx cell and those in the quartz bed reactor. First, in the case of the TPRx cell, small amounts of nanoparticles dispersed on flat supports are used, while in the packed-bed quartz reactor bulk particles are diluted with inert quartz sand (1:4 by volume). Second, in the case of alumina versus SiO2 support, the chemistry at the interface of the particle and support may vary and result in changes in activity and selectivity. The mobility of the particles on the surface can differ as well. The TORs for the 6 nm size particles on flat SiO2 support were calculated to be 1.9 × 10–3 mol atom–1 s–1 at 200 °C, 1.6 × 10–2 mol atom–1 s–1 at 250 °C, and 8.4 × 10–3 mol atom–1 s–1 at 225 °C in the quartz reactor (cf. 3.68 × 10–3 mol atom–1 s–1 at 225 °C for alumina-supported, Table 2). At 250 °C, the TOR in the quartz reactor for the 6 nm particles was calculated to be 3.4 × 10–2 mol atom–1 s–1 while the TOR for the alumina supported 6 nm particles obtained in the TPRx cell was 1.56 × 10–2 mol atom–1 s–1 at 265 °C (not shown in Table 2.) The TOR for the 12 nm size particles in the quartz reactor was determined as 2.7 × 10–3 mol atom–1 s–1 at 250 °C, comparable with 7.14 × 10–3 mol atom–1 s–1 measured at 225 °C for alumina-supported catalyst (see Table 2.). The flat SiO2-supported and packed-bed in the quartz reactor tested catalysts underwent deactivation as well, though to a different extent than the alumina supported particles, which indicates particle size and support dependence of particle assembly and redispersion. Very importantly, the agreement between the reaction rates obtained on various supports in the TPRx cell (where a relatively large surface of the cobalt oxide nanoparticles is in contact with the support) and the reaction rates observed on the packed bulk cobalt oxide particles (where there is significantly smaller contact area with the quartz support) provides additional evidence that the active sites reside at the surface of the particles and not at the nanoparticle-support interface.
The catalyst and temperature-dependent selectivities to individual products in the oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane over 6 and 12 nm Co3O4 particles are shown in Figure 8. The selectivities for both the 6 and 12 nm particles are highly temperature dependent which suggests that the proper choice of particle size together with reaction temperature might be used to target the formation of desired dehydrogenation products such as the industrial attractive cyclohexene, cyclohexadiene, or benzene. Overall, the larger particle sample is more selective toward the dehydrogenated products, especially at lower temperatures, in analogy to the reported activity and selectivity of 10–15 nm size cobalt oxide particles toward propane. (13-15) We note that while the smaller particles only lose about 15% of their activity during the 300 °C temperature step, there is essentially no change observed in their selectivity; in the case of the larger particles, the loss in catalytic activity (45%) is accompanied by an increase in the cyclohexene yield at the expense of CO2 production. The relatively higher CO2 production on the smaller particle sample may be a result of the smallest (∼4 nm) sizes present in the size particle distribution (see Figure 3), a size comparable to the one which was also found highly reactive toward CO2 formation in the reaction of cyclohexene on cobalt oxide aggregates. (16, 31)
Figure 8
Figure 8. Carbon-based selectivities for the carbonaceous products for the ODH of cyclohexane by Co3O4 6 nm nanoparticles at (a) 225 °C, (b) initially setting the temperature to 300 °C, and (c) after 1 h of reaction at 300 °C. Also presented are the percent of carbonaceous products created during the ODH of cyclohexane by 12 nm Co3O4 nanoparticles at (d) 225 °C, (e) initially setting the temperature to 300 °C, and (f) after 1 h of reaction at 300 °C.
Although the TORs reported herein are appreciable, they are still orders of magnitude lower than those reported on platinum catalysts which range from 0.1 to 5 molecules per Pt atom per second. (73-78) The advantage of the Co3O4 nanoparticles, however, is that production of valuable cyclohexene and cyclohexadiene can be controlled by the choice of the particle size and reaction temperature. In addition, the concentration of oxygen in the feed can also be used to begin to control the selectivities. Similar results were recently demonstrated on the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on subnanometer cobalt oxide clusters CoO under oxygen rich (16) and oxygen lean (31) reaction conditions.
Table 4. Apparent Activation Energies Obtained for 6 and 12 nm Co3O4 Particles in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexanea
  apparent activation energy [kJ mol–1]
sample Ea C6H12 Ea C6H10 Ea C6H8 Ea C6H6 Ea CO2
6 nm 105.8 87.6 45.3 205.4 72.7
12 nm 53.9 28.2 35.2 133.0 89.9
aActivation energies derived from the TOR values at the beginning of the 300 °C temperature step (see Figure 7 and Table 2).The estimated uncertainty for the activation barriers reported for the 6 nm size particles is 10–20% (note the ∼15% decline in activity during the 300 °C temperature step). The uncertainty for the activation barriers reported for the 12 nm particles is estimated to be between 20–30%, because of the ∼45% drop in activity during the 300 °C temperature step.
The apparent activation energies toward cyclohexane and individual products are shown for the 6 and 12 nm particles in Table 4.
The reported activation energies for cyclohexane (105.8 and 53.9 kJ mol–1) are in good agreement with those obtained with the unsupported catalyst powders in the quartz reactor (associated with the TORs reported above), 98.1 kJ mol–1 and 61.0 kJ mol–1 for the 6 and 12 nm size particles, respectively.
B Theoretical Results
B.1 Alkane Activation
The rate-determining step in the dehydrogenation as well as the oxidation of alkanes is thought to involve the activation of the initial C–H bond. This is supported by isotopic substitution experiments, (79) kinetic measurements, (80) as well as theoretical studies. (81, 82) The subsequent reactions leading to the formation of alkenes, aromatics, CO2 and H2O are considered to be relatively fast because of their more favorable enthalpies and entropies. (83)
The activation of alkane C–H bonds over metal oxide surfaces typically occur by either heterolytic or homolytic mechanisms (84-86) involving metal–oxygen (M*-O*) or oxygen–oxygen (O*-O*) site pairs, respectively. Heterolytic dissociation (Figure 9) is thought to proceed via σ-bond metathesis which involves C–H oxidative addition together with a proton abstraction by a basic O* site on the surface, thus resulting in the formation of M*-Cδ- and O*-Hδ+ bonds in the transition state and the overall reaction: C3H8 + Co*-O* → Co*-C3H7 + O*-H.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Heterolytic reaction paths for the first C–H bond activation of propane over Co3O4 surfaces. Top: Cotetr-O3f(b) site pair of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, center: Coocta-O3f site pair of Type B (110) surface, bottom: Coocta-O2f site pair of Type B (110) surface.
Homolytic C–H activation, on the other hand, involves hydrogen-abstraction (Figure 10), where a basic oxygen atom at the surface abstracts a H• and results in a weakly coordinated C3H7(•) species in the transition state. The C3H7 readily rebonds to a second oxygen at the surface as the reaction proceeds. The reaction thus occurs over two surface oxygen atoms (O*-O*) via the step: C3H8 + 2O* → O*-C3H7 + O*-H. A test calculation for cyclohexane initial C–H bond activation via H-abstraction at O2f site of Co3O4 (110)B surface gives an energy barrier of 22 kJ mol–1, which is close to the C–H activation barrier (29 kJ mol–1) of propane at the same surface site. This helps to validate the use of propane as a simplified model for C–H activation at secondary carbon of cyclohexane.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Homolytic reaction paths for the first C–H bond activation of propane over Co3O4 surfaces. From top to bottom: O3f(a) site of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, O3f(b) site of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, O2f site of Type B (110) surface, and O3f site of Type B (110) surface.
Both heterolytic and homolytic reactions can proceed over the most stable Co3O4 (111) or the type B Co3O4 (110) surfaces which serve as models of the catalytically active oxide terrace sites present on the cobalt oxide particles used in the experimental work discussed above. The calculated activation barriers and reaction energies for the C–H activation of propane over the Cotetr-terminated (111) and type B (110) surfaces are presented in Figure 9 and 10. The type B (110) surface is more reactive than the Cotetr-terminated (111) surface as the barriers on the (110) surface for both the homolytic path (29 and 39 kJ mol–1) as well as the heterolytic path (68 kJ mol–1) are lower than the corresponding values for the homolytic (39 and 58 kJ mol–1) and heterolytic (87 kJ mol–1) paths on the (111) surface.
The activation barriers for the homolytic abstraction of hydrogen at O*-O* site pairs (29–58 kJ mol–1 (Figure 10)) over both the (110) and (111) Co3O4 surfaces were calculated to be considerably lower than the heterolytic activation of the C–H bond over the Co*-O* site pairs via σ-bond metathesis (68–87 kJ mol–1 (Figure 9)) over these same surfaces.
In addition to enthalpy, entropy also plays an important role in activation of the alkane. Configurational entropy tends to promote the homolytic path as there is a higher abundance of the active O*-O* site pairs needed for the homolytic path than the Co*-O* pairs needed for the heterolytic path over both the (111) and the (110) surfaces especially at higher oxygen partial pressures. In addition, there are significantly greater translational and rotational degrees of freedom that result from the looser transition states for hydrogen abstraction on the O*-O* pair in the homolytic path than the tighter transition states found for σ-bond metathesis over the Co*-O* pair in the heterolytic path. This can be seen in the transition states depicted in Figures 9 and 10 which show that the (CH3)2CH(•) that forms in the homolytic hydrogen abstraction path is much farther away from the surface and more weakly coordinated to the H-atom versus the closer and more strongly coordinated Co-CH(CH3)2 that forms in the heterolytic σ-bond metathesis reaction. The homolytic activation of the C–H bond over the O*-O* sites is thus entropically much more favored than that the heterolytic activation over the Co*-O* sites. As a result, the free energy of activation of the secondary C–H bond of propane significantly favors the homolytic hydrogen-abstraction reaction over the heterolytic σ-bond metathesis over the Co3O4 surfaces examined.
To provide more insights into the factors that control C–H activation, we used a Born–Haber cycle analysis to show that the significant cost of activating the C–H bond (574 kJ mol–1) is largely recovered in the transition state via the strong stabilizing interaction (ca. 480 kJ mol–1) between the activated H and the surface oxygen atom to which it binds. As such, one measure of the reactivity of different sites and different surfaces may be its hydrogen affinity as has been suggested previously for reducible oxide surfaces such as vanadia or molybdena. (87-91) There appears to be a linear correlation between the calculated C–H bond activation barriers and H affinities at different oxygen sites on both the (111) and (110) Co3O4 surfaces. As shown in Figure 11, higher H affinities result in more reactive sites for C–H activation by direct hydrogen-abstraction. Among the four surface oxygen sites examined, we found the low-coordinate 2-fold O2f site on the Type B (110) surface is the most active, which is consistent with the DFT+U calculations on catalytic CO oxidation (55) over Co3O4(110) surface.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Linear correlation between C–H bond activation barrier at various surface oxygen site and the hydrogen affinity of the corresponding site.
The results indicate that alkane activation of Co3O4 predominantly proceeds via hydrogen abstraction over weakly held O* surface sites. In the next section we analyze the subsequent dehydrogenation steps involved in the formation of the alkene. While IR studies (92) suggest that various minor oxygenated products can also be produced in the oxidation of propane over Co3O4 at 373 K, we focus our efforts here solely on the dehydrogenation of propane to propene as these are the steps most relevant to experimental results reported above for cyclohexane.
B.2 Dehydrogenation to the Alkene
The dehydrogenation of propane to propene can proceed via the two different reaction paths depicted in paths (a) and (b) of Figure 12. Path (a) which is shown in blue proceeds via an initial σ-bond metathesis at the Coocta-O2f pair. This followed by the subsequent activation of the Co*-bound propyl (C3H7-Co*) intermediate to adsorbed propene (C3H6*-Co*) and H-O* results in a higher overall potential energies profile. The reaction via path (b) shown in red which involves two consecutive hydrogen-abstraction steps at two adjacent O2f site to form propene via the bound propoxide intermediate is the more favored path.
Figure 12
Figure 12. DFT + U calculated potential energy diagram of plausible reaction pathways of propane dehydrogenation toward propene over Co3O4 Type B (110) surface. The energies are shown in kJ mol–1.
The conversion of propane to propene results in the formation of surface hydroxyl groups that ultimately react to form water that subsequently desorbs from the surface. At least two mechanisms are plausible for water formation, as illustrated in Figure 13. The first involves the disproportionation between two vicinal hydroxyl groups that react directly to form water and oxygen. The water subsequently desorbs thus resulting in the formation of an O-vacancy. The second path involves the abstraction of two protons by a reactive surface O* species produced as a result of the dissociation of gas phase oxygen on the Co3O4 surface ultimately forming water that desorbs from the surface without the formation of a surface vacancy.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Plausible reaction mechanisms for water desorption on (110) B surface. (1) Extraction of water formed by a hydroxylated O2f and the H from a vicinal hydroxyl; (2) desorption of water formed by an excess O abstracting two H from vicinal surface hydroxyls.
A comparison of the 3-fold O* sites (on the (111) and the type B (110) surfaces) and the 2-fold sites O2f on the type B (110) surface indicates that the 2-fold sites O2f are easier to remove as water as the abstracted hydrogen atoms bind rather strongly. While the DFT+U calculated binding energy at 0.5 ML H coverage is −241 kJ mol–1, there is a significant enhancement in translational and rotational degrees of freedom that result from desorption thus reducing the overall free energy for desorption to only 135 kJ mol–1. Increasing the H-coverages of the O2f sites to 1 ML will induce desorption of H2O with free energy change of only 19 kJ mol–1; however, the energy barrier for C–H activation on Co*-OH* site pair is 116 kJ mol–1, which is higher than that on the clean Co*-O* site pairs.
A second and more likely situation is that the water that desorbs does not come directly from the lattice oxygen but instead is the result of excess surface O* produced via the activation of O2. These excess O* sites are more weakly bound to the surface and will readily abstract H from vicinal lattice OH* sites thus providing an energetically more favorable route for the removal of water as free energy change is now −19 kJ mol–1.
The final step in the catalytic cycle which involves the regeneration of surface oxygen sites by filling the oxygen vacancies with dioxygen from gas phase appears to be quite facile and extremely exothermic. As illustrated by the potential energy diagram in Figure 14, the reaction energy of adsorbing O2 at O2f vacancy is −154 kJ mol–1. The adsorbed O2 is readily activated at the exposed Co site and the terminal O atom migrates to a vicinal Coocta site, where it more strongly adsorbs. This proceeds with a low activation barrier (48 kJ mol–1) and a reaction energy of −29 kJ mol–1. This excess O can then readily abstract H and form water as discussed above, or it can diffuse on the surface until it fills another vacancy site. These results are consistent with previous computational studies. (55) The active surface sites are readily replenished provided that the alkane and oxygen are cofed to the systems.
Figure 14
Figure 14. DFT + U calculated potential energy diagram of the regeneration of (110)B O2f sites by filling the O vacancy with O2.
B.3 Reactivity Trends
The results presented herein indicate that the dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes is controlled by the initial activation of the C–H bond. The C–H activation over Co3O4 appears to proceed by hydrogen abstraction from the alkane via weakly held surface oxygen atoms. This is consistent with reactivity data reported in the literature which show that the relatively weak metal–oxygen bond in Co3O4 as compared to other metal oxides, such as CuO, MnO2, NiO, Cr2O3, V2O5, and Al2O3, and so forth, makes it much more active than those oxides in alkane activation. (93, 94) The weakest Co–O bonds are those present on the (110) terraces of Co3O4; as such these sites lead to the strongest O–H bonds and the lowest C–H activation energies. Oxygen present at the corners and edge sites of Co3O4 nanoparticles is more strongly held than that on the terrace sites and thus results in weaker O–H bonds and higher C–H activation energies. This is consistent with the experimental results which show greater reactivity on the 12 nm particles than that on the 6 nm particles.
The most active sites appear to be those with the weakest M–O bonds and strongest O–H bonds. This agrees with arguments that suggest the most active oxides are those that are most readily reduced and have the lowest oxygen vacancy formation energy. Previous experimental results found that Co3O4 nanoparticles larger than 6 nm were more reducible than smaller Co3O4 clusters; the authors attributed this change to organic capping or silica supports. (95-97) In addition, recent theoretical calculations on ceria nanoparticles (98) showed that larger nanoparticles have lower oxygen vacancy formation energies than smaller ones. The higher reducibility and lower oxygen vacancy formation energies can also be ascribed to the fact that larger particles contain higher fractions of terrace sites where the O* binding is significantly weaker than O* at the edge and corner sites.
The higher reactivity of the larger Co3O4 clusters can also be the result of the smaller band gaps for the larger oxide clusters over the smaller oxide clusters. The calculated barriers for both the homolytic and the heterolytic C–H activation on the Co3O4 (110) and (111) surfaces discussed above can be correlated with their band gaps of 0.62 and 0.82 eV, respectively, where the smaller band gaps were found to bind hydrogen more strongly and stabilize the resulting transition states. This is consistent with the classic idea that lowering the valence band edge (reducing the band gap) decreases the energy required to transfer electrons from the filled C–H bond to this state thus lowering the C–H activation energy. (99) This is also consistent with the experimental results which show that the larger 12 nm particles have lower apparent activation energies than the 6 nm particles as the larger oxide clusters have lower band gaps than the smaller clusters. (100)
Conclusions
Experimental as well as theoretical results reported herein show that the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes such as cyclohexane and propane occurs quite readily over Co3O4 nanocatalysts. Both the 6 and 12 nm size particles examined herein promoted the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene, yet differences in catalyst performance were noted as a function of size and temperature. The larger 12 nm size particles demonstrated high selectivities toward cyclohexene at lower temperatures whereas the 6 nm size particles demonstrated high selectivities to benzene at higher temperatures. The XANES spectra did not identify significant differences in oxidation state at reactive temperatures indicating that the active phase is Co3O4. As determined by GISAXS, both catalysts underwent an evolution in their size distribution via forming particle assemblies and disintegration of these assemblies, in response to the change of reaction temperature. A lower deactivation was observed for the 6 nm particles and did not change the selectivity for benzene formation. Thus, it is proposed that the 6 nm Co3O4 particles supported on Al2O3 are more effective and stable catalysts for the ODH of cyclohexane than the 12 nm size ones.
First principle density functional theoretical calculations with Hubbard U corrections were carried out on the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene over model Co3O4 surfaces to gain insights into the pathways and mechanisms that control the C–H bond activation, water formation, and surface reoxidation steps in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Co3O4 particles. The results show that C–H activation preferentially proceeds via a homolytic mechanism where the most weakly held and most basic oxygen surface sites carry out hydrogen abstraction to form a propoxy intermediate that subsequently reacts to form propene. The results show a direct correlation between the hydrogen affinity of the exposed O* sites on the Co3O4 surfaces and the C–H bond activation energies. The comparison of the lowest energy (111) and Type B (110) surfaces of Co3O4 which make up the terrace sites on cobalt oxide particles used in this work indicates that the Type B(110) surface is the most active and that the active sites are the weakly held O* that form in the presence of oxygen. The results indicate that smaller cobalt oxide nanoparticles with more edge and corner sites would lead to more strongly held and less basic O* sites and thus result in lower dehydrogenation reactivity. Larger cobalt oxide particles contain a higher fraction of weakly held O* on terrace sites and smaller band gaps than the smaller Co3O4 particles; both appear to result in lower C–H activation barriers on the larger particles than on the smaller clusters. This is consistent with the experimental results which show a higher reactivity of the larger 12 nm particles over the smaller 6 nm particles.
The presence of oxygen is critical as it replenishes the active surface O*-O* sites which carry out C–H bond activation and the formation and removal of water. This agrees very well with the experimental results which show the highest rates of reaction proceed in the presence of oxygen when cyclohexane and oxygen are cofed thus resulting in the oxidative conversion of cyclohexane. These results are a promising starting point for optimizing replacement non-noble metal oxide catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation processes which should have a significant economic impact.
Author Information
Corresponding Authors
Matthew Neurock - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.;  Email: vajda@anl.gov mn4n@virginia.edu
Stefan Vajda - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  Email: vajda@anl.gov mn4n@virginia.edu
Authors
Eric C. Tyo - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States
Chunrong Yin - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Marcel Di Vece - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States
Qiang Qian - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Gihan Kwon - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Sungsik Lee - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Byeongdu Lee - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Janae E. DeBartolo - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Sönke Seifert - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Randall E. Winans - Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, 9 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, United States;  ‡Materials Science Division, ∥X-ray Science Division, and ○Center for Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States;  Departments of §Chemical Engineering and ¶Chemistry, University of Virginia, 102 Engineers’ Way, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, United States;  Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States;  Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Rui Si - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Brian Ricks - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Simone Goergen - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Matthew Rutter - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Branko Zugic - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Maria Flytzani-Stephanopoulos - Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, 4 Colby Street, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts 02155, United States
Zhi Wei Wang - Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Richard E. Palmer - Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, U.K.
Funding
We are grateful for the financial support to support this work at Virginia, Tufts, and Yale by a MURI grant from the Air Force Office of Sponsored Research FA9550-08-0309. The effort at Argonne (in situ data acquisition and analysis) was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, BES Materials Sciences, under Contract DE-AC-02-06CH11357, with UChicago Argonne, LLC, operator of Argonne National Laboratory. The use of the Advanced Photon Source, an Office of Science User Facility operated for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science by Argonne National Laboratory, was supported by the U.S. DOE under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. The computational research was performed using EMSL, a national scientific user facility sponsored by the Department of Energy’s Office of Biological and Environmental Research and located at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgment
We kindly acknowledge Dr. Michael Berman from AFOSR and other members of our MURI team including, Professors Lisa Pfefferle, Gary Haller, and Ray Gorte for helpful discussions. The authors thank Drs. Jeffrey Elam and Joseph Libera for providing ALD coating of the support, Dr. Hau-Hsien Wang for performing an AFM test of the particle height on supported samples, and Don Graczyk for performing the ICPMS analysis of the cobalt loadings.
References
This article references 100 other publications.
1Dukek, W. G. Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology; Wiley: New York, 1991.
Google Scholar
2Blomberg, J.; Schoenmakers, P. J.; Brinkman, U. A. T. J. Chromatogr., A 2002, 972 (2) 137– 173
Google Scholar
3Dummer, N. F.; Bawaked, S.; Hayward, J.; Jenkins, R.; Hutchings, G. J. Catal. Today 2010, 154, 2– 6
Google Scholar
4Lezanska, M.; Szymanski, G. S.; Pietrzyk, P.; Sojka, Z.; Lercher, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 1830– 1839
Google Scholar
5Feng, H.; Elam, J. W.; Libera, J. A.; Pellin, M. J.; Stair, P. C. J. Catal. 2010, 269, 421– 431
Google Scholar
6Turek, W.; Sniechota, A.; Haber, J. Catal. Lett. 2009, 127, 7– 12
Google Scholar
7Alyea, E. C.; Keane, M. A. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 28– 35
Google Scholar
8Panizza, M.; Resini, C.; Busca, G.; Lopez, E. F.; Escribano, V. S. Catal. Lett. 2003, 89 (3–4) 199– 205
Google Scholar
9Koel, B. E.; Blank, D. A.; Carter, E. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1998, 131, 39– 53
Google Scholar
10Ali, L. I.; Ali, A.-G. A.; Aboul-Fotouh, S. M.; Aboul-Gheit, A. K. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 177, 99– 110
Google Scholar
11Xie, X.; Li, Y.; Liu, Z.-Q.; Haruta, M.; Shen, W. Nature 2009, 458 (7239) 746– 749
Google Scholar
12Davies, T. E.; Garcia, T.; Solsona, B.; Taylor, S. H. Chem. Commun. 2006, 32, 3417– 3419
Google Scholar
13Solsona, B.; Vazquez, I.; Garcia, T.; Davies, T. E.; Taylor, S. H. Catal. Lett. 2007, 116 (3–4) 116– 121
Google Scholar
14Solsona, B.; Davies, T. E.; Garcia, T.; Vazquez, I.; Dejoz, A.; Taylor, S. H. Appl. Catal., B 2008, 84 (1–2) 176– 184
Google Scholar
15Liu, Q.; Wang, L. C.; Chen, M.; Cao, Y.; He, H. Y.; Fan, K. N. J. Catal. 2009, 263 (1) 104– 113
Google Scholar
16Lee, S.; DiVece, M.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R.; Vajda, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2012, 14 (26) 9336– 9342
Google Scholar
17Wickham, D. T.; Engel, J. R.; Hitch, B. D.; Karpuk, M. E. J. Propul. Power 2001, 17 (6) 1253– 1257
Google Scholar
18Ciuparu, D.; Lyubovsky, M. R.; Altman, E.; Pfefferle, L. D.; Datye, A. Catal. Rev. 2002, 44 (4) 593– 649
Google Scholar
19Busca, G.; Finocchio, E.; Lorenzelli, V.; Ramis, G.; Baldi, M. Catal. Today 1999, 49 (4) 453– 465
Google Scholar
20Kim, M. H.; Lee, B.; Lee, S.; Larson, C.; Baik, J. M.; Yavuz, C. T.; Seifert, S.; Vajda, S.; Winans, R. E.; Moskovits, M.; Stucky, G. D.; Wodtke, A. M. Nano Lett. 2009, 9 (12) 4138– 4146
Google Scholar
21Renaud, G.; Lazzari, R.; Leroy, F. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2009, 64, 255– 380
Google Scholar
22Lei, Y.; Mehmood, F.; Lee, S.; Greeley, J.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R. E.; Elam, J. W.; Meyer, R. J.; Redfern, P. C.; Teschner, D.; Schlogl, R.; Pellin, M. J.; Curtiss, L. A.; Vajda, S. Science 2010, 328 (5975) 224– 228
Google Scholar
23Lee, S.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Vajda, S.; Winans, R. E. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Section A 2011, 649 (1) 200– 203
Google Scholar
24Molina, L. M.; Lee, S.; Sell, K.; Barcaro, G.; Fortunelli, A.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R. E.; Elam, J. W.; Pellin, M. J.; Barke, I.; von Oeynhausen, V.; Lei, Y.; Meyer, R. J.; Alonso, J. A.; Rodriguez, A. F.; Kleibert, A.; Giorgio, S.; Henry, C. R.; Meiwes-Broer, K. H.; Vajda, S. Catal. Today 2011, 160 (1) 116– 130
Google Scholar
25Lee, S.; Molina, L. M.; Lopez, M. J.; Alonso, J. A.; Hammer, B.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R. E.; Elam, J. W.; Pellin, M. J.; Vajda, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48 (8) 1467– 1471
Google Scholar
26Lee, S.; Lee, B.; Mehmood, F.; Seifert, S.; Libera, J. A.; Elam, J. W.; Greeley, J.; Zapol, P.; Curtiss, L. A.; Pellin, M. J.; Stair, P. C.; Winans, R. E.; Vajda, S. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114 (23) 10342– 10348
Google Scholar
27Vajda, S.; Wiederrecht, G. P.; Bouhelier, A.; Tikhonov, G. Y.; Tomczyk, N.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R. E. Collect. Czech. Chem. Commun. 2007, 72 (1) 121– 128
Google Scholar
28Winans, R. E.; Vajda, S.; Ballentine, G. E.; Elam, J. W.; Lee, B. D.; Pelline, M. J.; Seifert, S.; Tikhonov, G. Y.; Tomczyk, N. A. Top. Catal. 2006, 39 (3–4) 145– 149
Google Scholar
29Wyrzgol, S. A.; Schafer, S.; Lee, S.; Lee, B.; Di Vece, M.; Li, X. B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R. E.; Stutzmann, M.; Lercher, J. A.; Vajda, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2010, 12 (21) 5585– 5595
Google Scholar
30Vajda, S.; Pellin, M. J.; Greeley, J. P.; Marshall, C. L.; Curtiss, L. A.; Ballentine, G. A.; Elam, J. W.; Catillon; Mucherie, S.; Redfern, P. C.; Mehmood, F.; Zapol, P. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8 (3) 213– 216
Google Scholar
31Lee, S.; Di Vece, M.; Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Winans, R.; Vajda, S. ChemCatChem 2012, 4 (10) 1632– 1637
Google Scholar
32Allen, J. E.; Hemesath, E. R.; Perea, D. E.; Lensch-Falk, J. L.; Li, Z. Y.; Yin, F.; Gass, M. H.; Wang, P.; Beloch, A. L.; Palmer, R. E.; Lauhon, L. Nat. Nanotechnol. 2008, 3, 168
Google Scholar
33García-Diéguez, M.; Chin, Y.-H.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 2012, 285 (1) 260– 272
Google Scholar
34Luo, Y.-R. Handbook of bond dissociation energies in organic compounds; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, 2002.
Google Scholar
35Dong, Y. M.; He, K.; Yin, L.; Zhang, A. M. Nanotechnology 2007, 18 (43) 435602
Google Scholar
36Li, Z. Y.; Young, N. P.; Di Vece, M.; Palomba, S.; Palmer, R. E.; Bleloch, A. L.; Curley, B. C.; Johnston, R. L.; Jiang, J.; Yuan, J. Nature 2008, 451 (7174) 46– 48
Google Scholar
37Wang, Z. W.; Toikkanen, O.; Quinn, B. M.; Palmer, R. E. Small 2011, 7, 1542
Google Scholar
38Wang, Z. W.; Palmer, R. E. Nano Lett. 2012, 12, 91
Google Scholar
39Lee, B.; Seifert, S.; Riley, S. J.; Tikhonov, G.; Tomczyk, N. A.; Vajda, S.; Winans, R. E. J. Chem. Phys. 2005, 123 (7) 7
Google Scholar
40Winans, R. E.; Vajda, S.; Lee, B.; Riley, S. J.; Seifert, S.; Tikhonov, G. Y.; Tomczyk, N. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108 (47) 18105– 18107
Google Scholar
41Babonneau, D. J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2010, 43, 929– 936
Google Scholar
42Lazzari, R.; Leroy, F.; Renaud, G. Phys. Rev. B 2007, 76 (12) 125411
Google Scholar
43Kresse, G.; Hafner, J. Phys. Rev. B 1993, 47, 558
Google Scholar
44Kresse, G.; Hafner, J. Phys. Rev. B 1994, 49, 14251
Google Scholar
45Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, J. Phys. Rev. B 1996, 54, 11169
Google Scholar
46Rohrbach, A.; Hafner, J.; Kresse, G. J. Phys-Condens Mat. 2003, 15, 6
Google Scholar
47Bengone, O.; Alouani, M.; Bloumlchl, P.; Hugel, J. Phys. Rev. B 2000, 62 (24) 16392
Google Scholar
48Perdew, J. P.; Burke, K.; Ernzerhof, M. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996, 77, 3865
Google Scholar
49Perdew, J. P.; Burke, K.; Ernzerhof, M. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1997, 78, 1396
Google Scholar
50Blöchl, P. E. Phys. Rev. B 1994, 50, 17953
Google Scholar
51Kresse, G.; Joubert, D. Phys. Rev. B 1999, 59, 1758
Google Scholar
52Roth, W. L. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1964, 25 (1) 1– 10
Google Scholar
53Wang, L.; Maxisch, T.; Ceder, G. Phys. Rev. B 2006, 73 (19) 195107
Google Scholar
54Walsh, A.; Wei, S.-H.; Yan, Y.; Al-Jassim, M. M.; Turner, J. A.; Woodhouse, M.; Parkinson, B. A. Phys. Rev. B 2007, 76 (16) 165119
Google Scholar
55Jiang, D.-e.; Dai, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13 (3) 978– 984
Google Scholar
56Montoya, A.; Haynes, B. S. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2011, 502 (1–3) 63– 68
Google Scholar
57Dudarev, S. L.; Botton, G. A.; Savrasov, S. Y.; Humphreys, C. J.; Sutton, A. P. Phys. Rev. B 1998, 57 (3) 1505
Google Scholar
58Anisimov, V. I.; Zaanen, J.; Andersen, O. K. Phys. Rev. B 1991, 44 (3) 943
Google Scholar
59Gulino, A.; Fragalà, I. Inorg. Chim. Acta 2005, 358 (15) 4466– 4472
Google Scholar
60Barreca, D.; Massignan, C.; Daolio, S.; Fabrizio, M.; Piccirillo, C.; Armelao, L.; Tondello, E. Chem. Mater. 2001, 13 (2) 588– 593
Google Scholar
61Cheng, C.-S.; Serizawa, M.; Sakata, H.; Hirayama, T. Mater. Chem. Phys. 1998, 53 (3) 225– 230
Google Scholar
62Patil, P. S.; Kadam, L. D.; Lokhande, C. D. Thin Solid Films 1996, 272 (1) 29– 32
Google Scholar
63Jónsson, H.; Mills, G.; Jacobsen, K. W. Nudged Elastic Band Method for Finding Minimum Energy Paths of Transitions. In Classical and Quantum Dynamics in Condensed Phase Simulations; Berne, B. J.; Ciccotti, G.; Coker, D. F., Eds.; World Scientific: Hackensack, NJ, 1998; pp 385– 404.
Google Scholar
64Graeme, H.; Hannes, J. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 111 (15) 7010– 7022
Google Scholar
65Smith, W. L.; Hobson, A. D. Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B 1973, 29 (2) 362– 363
Google Scholar
66Henrich, V. E.; Cox, P. A. The surface science of metal oxide; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, U.K., 1996.
Google Scholar
67Beaufils, J. P.; Barbaux, Y. J. Appl. Crystallogr. 1982, 15 (3) 301– 307
Google Scholar
68Meyer, W.; Biedermann, K.; Gubo, M.; Hammer, L.; Heinz, K. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2008, 20 (26) 265011
Google Scholar
69Petitto, S. C.; Langell, M. A. Surf. Sci. 2005, 599 (1–3) 27– 40
Google Scholar
70Malone, E. M.; Petitto, S. C.; Langell, M. A. Solid State Commun. 2004, 130 (9) 571– 575
Google Scholar
71Bals, S.; Van Aert, S.; Romero, C. P.; Lauwaet, K.; Van Bael, M. J.; Schoeters, B.; Partoens, B.; Yucelen, E.; Lievens, P.; Van Tendeloo, G. Nat. Commun. 2012, 3, 897
Google Scholar
72Kung, H. H. Oxidative dehydrogenation of light (C-2 to C-4) alkanes. In Advances in Catalysis; Academic Press Inc: San Diego, CA, 1994; Vol. 40, pp 1– 38.
Google Scholar
73Kariya, N.; Fukuoka, A.; Utagawa, T.; Sakuramoto, M.; Goto, Y.; Ichikawa, M. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 247 (2) 247– 259
Google Scholar
74Blakely, D. W.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1976, 42 (2) 181– 196
Google Scholar
75Aramendia, M. A.; Benitez, J. A.; Borau, V.; Jimenez, C.; Marinas, J. M.; Moreno, A. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1997, 62 (1) 23– 31
Google Scholar
76Hodoshima, S.; Arai, H.; Saito, Y. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2003, 28 (2) 197– 204
Google Scholar
77Wang, Y. G.; Shah, N.; Huffman, G. P. Energy Fuels 2004, 18 (5) 1429– 1433
Google Scholar
78Wang, X.; Li, N.; Webb, J. A.; Pfefferle, L. D.; Haller, G. L. Appl. Catal., B 2009, 101 (1–2) 21– 30
Google Scholar
79Cant, N. W.; Lukey, C. A.; Nelson, P. F.; Tyler, R. J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1988, 12, 766– 768
Google Scholar
80Wei, J.; Iglesia, E. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2004, 6 (13) 3754– 3759
Google Scholar
81Chin, Y.-H.; Buda, C.; Neurock, M.; Iglesia, E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133 (40) 15958– 15978
Google Scholar
82Jones, G.; Jakobsen, J. G.; Shim, S. S.; Kleis, J.; Andersson, M. P.; Rossmeisl, J.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Bligaard, T.; Helveg, S.; Hinnemann, B.; Rostrup-Nielsen, J. R.; Chorkendorff, I.; Sehested, J.; Nørskov, J. K. J. Catal. 2008, 259 (1) 147– 160
Google Scholar
83Burch, R.; Crittle, D. J.; Hayes, M. J. Catal. Today 1999, 47 (1–4) 229– 234
Google Scholar
84Haber, J. Molecular mechanism of heterogeneous oxidation -- organic and solid state chemists’ views. In Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis - 3rd Word Congress on Oxidation Catalysis; Grasselli, R. K.; Oyama, S. T.; Gaffney, A. M.; Lyons, J. E., Eds.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1997; Vol. 110, pp 1– 17.
Google Scholar
85Fu, G.; Xu, X.; Lu, X.; Wan, H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127 (11) 3989– 3996
Google Scholar
86Xu, X.; Faglioni, F.; Goddard, W. A. J. Phys. Chem. A 2002, 106 (31) 7171– 7176
Google Scholar
87Yin, X.; Han, H.; Endou, A.; Kubo, M.; Teraishi, K.; Chatterjee, A.; Miyamoto, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103 (8) 1263– 1269
Google Scholar
88Witko, M. Catal. Today 1996, 32 (1–4) 89– 95
Google Scholar
89Hermann, K.; Michalak, A.; Witko, M. Catal. Today 1996, 32 (1–4) 321– 327
Google Scholar
90Fu, G.; Chen, Z.-N.; Xu, X.; Wan, H.-L. J. Phys. Chem. A 2008, 112 (4) 717– 721
Google Scholar
91Li, H.-Y.; Guo, Y.-L.; Guo, Y.; Lu, G.-Z.; Hu, P. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128 (5) 051101– 4
Google Scholar
92Finocchio, E.; Busca, G.; Lorenzelli, V.; Escribano, V. S. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92 (9) 1587– 1593
Google Scholar
93Morooka, Y.; Ozaki, A. J. Catal. 1966, 5 (1) 116– 124
Google Scholar
94Trifirò, F.; Pasquon, I. J. Catal. 1968, 12 (4) 412– 416
Google Scholar
95Prieto, G.; Martínez, A.; Concepción, P.; Moreno-Tost, R. J. Catal. 2009, 266 (1) 129– 144
Google Scholar
96Martínez, A.; López, C.; Márquez, F.; Díaz, I. J. Catal. 2003, 220 (2) 486– 499
Google Scholar
97Khodakov, A. Y.; Lynch, J.; Bazin, D.; Rebours, B.; Zanier, N.; Moisson, B.; Chaumette, P. J. Catal. 1997, 168 (1) 16– 25
Google Scholar
98Migani, A.; Vayssilov, G. N.; Bromley, S. T.; Illas, F.; Neyman, K. M. J. Mater. Chem. 2010, 20 (46) 10535– 10546
Google Scholar
99Haber, J.; Witko, M. J. Catal. 2003, 216 (1–2) 416– 424
Google Scholar
100Grassian, V. H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112 (47) 18303– 18313
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
5
Mentioning
112
Contrasting
1
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 112 publications.
Shashikant A. Kadam, Stefania Sandoval, Zdeněk Bastl, Karolína Simkovičová, Libor Kvítek, Juraj Jašík, Joanna Elżbieta Olszówka, Stanislav Valtera, Mykhailo Vaidulych, Jaroslava Morávková, Petr Sazama, David Kubička, Arnaud Travert, Jeroen A. van Bokhoven, Alessandro Fortunelli, Armin Kleibert, Martin Kalbáč, Štefan Vajda. Cyclohexane Oxidative Dehydrogenation on Graphene-Oxide-Supported Cobalt Ferrite Nanohybrids: Effect of Dynamic Nature of Active Sites on Reaction Selectivity. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (20) , 13484-13505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02592
Xinbo Li, Xiyang Wang, Junfang Ding, Mingwei Ma, Shuhua Yuan, Qilei Yang, Zhen Wang, Yue Peng, Chengjun Sun, Hua Zhou, Haozhe Liu, Yimin A. Wu, Keke Huang, Liping Li, Guangshe Li, Shouhua Feng. Engineering Active Surface Oxygen Sites of Cubic Perovskite Cobalt Oxides toward Catalytic Oxidation Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6338-6350. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00139
Lulu Ping, Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Unraveling the Surface State Evolution of IrO2 in Ethane Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (2) , 1381-1399. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05770
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Jaruwan Amtawong, Andy I. Nguyen, T. Don Tilley. Mechanistic Aspects of Cobalt–Oxo Cubane Clusters in Oxidation Chemistry. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (4) , 1475-1492. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c11445
Han Guo, Patricia Poths, Philippe Sautet, Anastassia N. Alexandrova. Oxidation Dynamics of Supported Catalytic Cu Clusters: Coupling to Fluxionality. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (1) , 818-827. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04100
Xiao Jiang, Lohit Sharma, Victor Fung, Sang Jae Park, Christopher W. Jones, Bobby G. Sumpter, Jonas Baltrusaitis, Zili Wu. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene with Soft Oxidants via Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 2182-2234. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03999
Zean Xie, Tingting Yu, Weiyu Song, Jianmei Li, Zhen Zhao, Baijun Liu, Zhenfei Gao, Dong Li. Highly Active Nanosized Anatase TiO2–x Oxide Catalysts In Situ Formed through Reduction and Ostwald Ripening Processes for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (24) , 14678-14693. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02825
Jaruwan Amtawong, Bastian B. Skjelstad, David Balcells, T. Don Tilley. Concerted Proton–Electron Transfer Reactivity at a Multimetallic Co4O4 Cubane Cluster. Inorganic Chemistry 2020, 59 (20) , 15553-15560. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c02625
Geng Sun, Anastassia N. Alexandrova, Philippe Sautet. Structural Rearrangements of Subnanometer Cu Oxide Clusters Govern Catalytic Oxidation. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (9) , 5309-5317. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00824
Juan M. Asensio, Donia Bouzouita, Piet W. N. M. van Leeuwen, Bruno Chaudret. σ-H–H, σ-C–H, and σ-Si–H Bond Activation Catalyzed by Metal Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 1042-1084. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00368
Jiahui Ye, Jiajun Tang, Yu-Jun Zhao, Chuan-De Wu. Synthesis and Catalytic Properties of Porous Metal Silica Materials Templated and Functionalized by Extended Coordination Cages. Inorganic Chemistry 2020, 59 (1) , 767-776. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b03039
George Yan, Philippe Sautet. Surface Structure of Co3O4 (111) under Reactive Gas-Phase Environments. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (7) , 6380-6392. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01485
Na Li, Feng Jiao, Xiulian Pan, Yi Ding, Jingyao Feng, Xinhe Bao. Size Effects of ZnO Nanoparticles in Bifunctional Catalysts for Selective Syngas Conversion. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (2) , 960-966. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b04105
Scott L. Nauert, Louisa Savereide, Justin M. Notestein. Role of Support Lewis Acid Strength in Copper-Oxide-Catalyzed Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (8) , 7598-7607. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00935
Yanqi Xu, Zelin Wang, Ling Tan, Hong Yan, Yufei Zhao, Haohong Duan, Yu-Fei Song. Interface Engineering of High-Energy Faceted Co3O4/ZnO Heterostructured Catalysts Derived from Layered Double Hydroxide Nanosheets. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2018, 57 (15) , 5259-5267. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b00170
Kartavya Bhola, Jithin John Varghese, Liu Dapeng, Yan Liu, and Samir H. Mushrif . Influence of Hubbard U Parameter in Simulating Adsorption and Reactivity on CuO: Combined Theoretical and Experimental Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (39) , 21343-21353. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b05385
Craig P. Plaisance, Rutger A. van Santen, and Karsten Reuter . Constrained-Orbital Density Functional Theory. Computational Method and Applications to Surface Chemical Processes. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation 2017, 13 (8) , 3561-3574. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.7b00362
Victor Fung, Franklin Feng Tao, and De-en Jiang . General Structure–Reactivity Relationship for Oxygen on Transition-Metal Oxides. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2017, 8 (10) , 2206-2211. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.7b00861
Zhanyong Li, Aaron W. Peters, Varinia Bernales, Manuel A. Ortuño, Neil M. Schweitzer, Matthew R. DeStefano, Leighanne C. Gallington, Ana E. Platero-Prats, Karena W. Chapman, Christopher J. Cramer, Laura Gagliardi, Joseph T. Hupp, and Omar K. Farha . Metal–Organic Framework Supported Cobalt Catalysts for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane at Low Temperature. ACS Central Science 2017, 3 (1) , 31-38. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.6b00290
Daniel Pla and Montserrat Gómez . Metal and Metal Oxide Nanoparticles: A Lever for C–H Functionalization. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (6) , 3537-3552. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00684
Christopher Paolucci, Atish A. Parekh, Ishant Khurana, John R. Di Iorio, Hui Li, Jonatan D. Albarracin Caballero, Arthur J. Shih, Trunojoyo Anggara, W. Nicholas Delgass, Jeffrey T. Miller, Fabio H. Ribeiro, Rajamani Gounder, and William F. Schneider . Catalysis in a Cage: Condition-Dependent Speciation and Dynamics of Exchanged Cu Cations in SSZ-13 Zeolites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (18) , 6028-6048. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b02651
Mu-Jeng Cheng and William A. Goddard, III . In Silico Design of Highly Selective Mo-V-Te-Nb-O Mixed Metal Oxide Catalysts for Ammoxidation and Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane and Ethane. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (41) , 13224-13227. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b07073
Hang Hu, Sixiang Cai, Hongrui Li, Lei Huang, Liyi Shi, and Dengsong Zhang . Mechanistic Aspects of deNOx Processing over TiO2 Supported Co–Mn Oxide Catalysts: Structure–Activity Relationships and In Situ DRIFTs Analysis. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (10) , 6069-6077. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01039
Filip Zasada, Witold Piskorz, and Zbigniew Sojka . Cobalt Spinel at Various Redox Conditions: DFT+U Investigations into the Structure and Surface Thermodynamics of the (100) Facet. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (33) , 19180-19191. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b05136
Stephan Bartling, Chunrong Yin, Ingo Barke, Kevin Oldenburg, Hannes Hartmann, Viola von Oeynhausen, Marga-Martina Pohl, Kelly Houben, Eric C. Tyo, Sönke Seifert, Peter Lievens, Karl-Heinz Meiwes-Broer, and Stefan Vajda . Pronounced Size Dependence in Structure and Morphology of Gas-Phase Produced, Partially Oxidized Cobalt Nanoparticles under Catalytic Reaction Conditions. ACS Nano 2015, 9 (6) , 5984-5998. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b00791
Sungsik Lee, Byeongdu Lee, Sönke Seifert, Randall E. Winans, and Stefan Vajda . Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis at a Low Pressure on Subnanometer Cobalt Oxide Clusters: The Effect of Cluster Size and Support on Activity and Selectivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (20) , 11210-11216. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp512157d
Brandon J. O’Neill, David H. K. Jackson, Jechan Lee, Christian Canlas, Peter C. Stair, Christopher L. Marshall, Jeffrey W. Elam, Thomas F. Kuech, James A. Dumesic, and George W. Huber . Catalyst Design with Atomic Layer Deposition. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (3) , 1804-1825. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs501862h
Bin Huang, Wenjuan Yang, Yanwei Wen, Bin Shan, and Rong Chen . Co3O4-Modified TiO2 Nanotube Arrays via Atomic Layer Deposition for Improved Visible-Light Photoelectrochemical Performance. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2015, 7 (1) , 422-431. https://doi.org/10.1021/am506392y
Chang-Ming Jiang, L. Robert Baker, J. Matthew Lucas, Josh Vura-Weis, A. Paul Alivisatos, and Stephen R. Leone . Characterization of Photo-Induced Charge Transfer and Hot Carrier Relaxation Pathways in Spinel Cobalt Oxide (Co3O4). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (39) , 22774-22784. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp5071133
Nan Yan, Ziang Zhao, Yan Li, Fang Wang, Hao Zhong, and Qianwang Chen . Synthesis of Novel Two-Phase Co@SiO2 Nanorattles with High Catalytic Activity. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53 (17) , 9073-9079. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic501092k
Yue Teng, Le Xin Song, Liang Bing Wang, and Juan Xia . Face-Raised Octahedral Co3O4 Nanocrystals and Their Catalytic Activity in the Selective Oxidation of Alcohols. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (9) , 4767-4773. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp412175t
Kristin Høydalsvik, Jostein B. Fløystad, Alexey Voronov, Georg J. B. Voss, Morteza Esmaeili, Jan Kehres, Håvard Granlund, Ulla Vainio, Jens W. Andreasen, Magnus Rønning, and Dag W. Breiby . Morphology Changes of Co Catalyst Nanoparticles at the Onset of Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (5) , 2399-2407. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp4052193
Zelong Li, Jianhua Liu, Chungu Xia, and Fuwei Li . Nitrogen-Functionalized Ordered Mesoporous Carbons as Multifunctional Supports of Ultrasmall Pd Nanoparticles for Hydrogenation of Phenol. ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (11) , 2440-2448. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs400506q
Rajenahally V. Jagadeesh, Henrik Junge, Marga-Martina Pohl, Jörg Radnik, Angelika Brückner, and Matthias Beller . Selective Oxidation of Alcohols to Esters Using Heterogeneous Co3O4–N@C Catalysts under Mild Conditions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (29) , 10776-10782. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja403615c
Gihan Kwon, Glen A. Ferguson, Christopher J. Heard, Eric C. Tyo, Chunrong Yin, Janae DeBartolo, Sönke Seifert, Randall E. Winans, A. Jeremy Kropf, Jeffrey Greeley, Roy L. Johnston, Larry A. Curtiss, Michael J. Pellin, and Stefan Vajda . Size-Dependent Subnanometer Pd Cluster (Pd4, Pd6, and Pd17) Water Oxidation Electrocatalysis. ACS Nano 2013, 7 (7) , 5808-5817. https://doi.org/10.1021/nn400772s
S. Goergen, C. Yin, M. Yang, B. Lee, S. Lee, C. Wang, P. Wu, M. B. Boucher, G. Kwon, S. Seifert, R. E. Winans, S. Vajda, and M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos . Structure Sensitivity of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane over FeOx and Au/Fe3O4 Nanocrystals. ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (4) , 529-539. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs3007582
Shannon C. Riha, Benjamin M. Klahr, Eric C. Tyo, Sönke Seifert, Stefan Vajda, Michael J. Pellin, Thomas W. Hamann, and Alex B. F. Martinson . Atomic Layer Deposition of a Submonolayer Catalyst for the Enhanced Photoelectrochemical Performance of Water Oxidation with Hematite. ACS Nano 2013, 7 (3) , 2396-2405. https://doi.org/10.1021/nn305639z
Upakul Deka, Ines Lezcano-Gonzalez, Bert M. Weckhuysen, and Andrew M. Beale . Local Environment and Nature of Cu Active Sites in Zeolite-Based Catalysts for the Selective Catalytic Reduction of NOx. ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (3) , 413-427. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs300794s
Chenxu Huo, Xiufeng Lang, Guoxiong Song, Yujie Wang, Shihong Ren, Weidan Liao, Hao Guo, Xueguang Chen. A DFT investigation on surface and defect modulation of the Co3O4 catalyst for efficient oxygen evolution reaction. Surface Science 2024, 748 , 122544. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2024.122544
Yanliang Zhai, Lisha Chen, Ruihan Wu, Xianggang Lu, Jun Wang, Gaolong Li, Bicheng Tang, Wei Zhang, Shaolong Zhang, Zhijun Li. Synthesis of Ordered Mesoporous Molecular Sieve-Supported Cobalt Catalyst via Organometallic Complexation for Propane Non-Oxidative Dehydrogenation. Nanomaterials 2024, 14 (13) , 1132. https://doi.org/10.3390/nano14131132
Krunalsinh Y Chauhan, Taraknath Das. Gas phase oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane over Alumina-Supported Copper-Manganese oxide Catalyst:in-situDRIFTS studies. Chemical Engineering Science 2024, 288 , 119847. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2024.119847
Corentin Reynaud, Cyril Thomas, Dalil Brouri, Yannick Millot, Antoine Miche, Guylène Costentin. Surface Immobilization Mechanisms of Cobalt ions on Hydroxyapatite catalyst supports. Catalysis Today 2024, 72 , 114621. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2024.114621
Md. Saeedur Rahman, Ye Xu. Role of dopant in the formation of reactive oxygen species and oxidation catalysis on CeO2(1 1 1). Journal of Catalysis 2024, 429 , 115266. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.115266
Kartavya Bhola, Quang Thang Trinh, Dapeng Liu, Yan Liu, Samir H. Mushrif. Insights into the role of water and surface OH species in methane activation on copper oxide: a combined theoretical and experimental study. Catalysis Science & Technology 2023, 13 (23) , 6764-6779. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CY00431G
Jin Yuan, Zhiwei He, Hongbo Zhang. Evidence of C–H bond activation dominating in both C6H12 oxidation and consequential C–C bond rupture. Journal of Catalysis 2023, 423 , 34-49. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.04.009
Tinoco Navarro Lizeth Katherine, Bednarikova Vendula, Kastyl Jaroslav, Cihlar Jaroslav. Structure and Photocatalytic Properties of Ni-, Co-, Cu-, and Fe-Doped TiO2 Aerogels. Gels 2023, 9 (5) , 357. https://doi.org/10.3390/gels9050357
Mrinal Bera, Qingteng Zhang, Xiaobing Zuo, Wei Bu, Joe Strzalka, Steven Weigand, Jan Ilavsky, Eric Dufresne, Suresh Narayanan, Byeongdu Lee. Opportunities of Soft Materials Research at Advanced Photon Source. Synchrotron Radiation News 2023, 36 (2) , 12-23. https://doi.org/10.1080/08940886.2023.2204096
B. Rabindran Jermy, Abdulkadir Tanimu, M. Abdulbari Siddiqui, Ziyauddin S. Qureshi, Abdullah Aitani, Aaron Akah, Qi Xu, Mansour AlHerz. Crude oil conversion to chemicals over green synthesized ZSM-5 zeolite. Fuel Processing Technology 2023, 241 , 107610. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuproc.2022.107610
Chunxiao Tan, Huixian Liu, Yuyao Qin, Liwen Li, Hua Wang, Xinli Zhu, Qingfeng Ge. Correlation between the Properties of Surface Lattice Oxygen on NiO and Its Reactivity and Selectivity towards the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. ChemPhysChem 2023, 24 (4) https://doi.org/10.1002/cphc.202200539
Juraj Jašík, Stanislav Valtera, Mykhailo Vaidulych, Muntaseer Bunian, Yu Lei, Avik Halder, Hana Tarábková, Martin Jindra, Ladislav Kavan, Otakar Frank, Stephan Bartling, Štefan Vajda. Oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on atomically precise subnanometer Cu 4− n Pd n (0 ≤ n ≤ 4) tetramer clusters: the effect of cluster composition and support on performance. Faraday Discussions 2023, 242 , 70-93. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2FD00108J
Lisa Allen, Miren Agote-Arán, Andrew M. Beale, Peixi Cong, Sofia Mediavilla-Madrigal, Stephen W.T. Price. EXAFS studies of inorganic catalytic materials. 2023, 108-148. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823144-9.00158-8
Sonu Bhandari, Rubina Khatun, Tuhin Suvra Khan, Deepak Khurana, Mukesh Kumar Poddar, Astha Shukla, V. V. D. N. Prasad, Rajaram Bal. Preparation of a nanostructured iron chromite spinel in the pure form and its catalytic activity for the selective oxidation of benzene to phenol: experimental and DFT studies. Green Chemistry 2022, 24 (23) , 9303-9314. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2GC02335K
Wenjun Zhu, Xing-bao Wang, Chuang Li, Xiao Chen, Wen-ying Li, Zhongmin Liu, Changhai Liang. Defect engineering over Co3O4 catalyst for surface lattice oxygen activation and boosted propane total oxidation. Journal of Catalysis 2022, 413 , 150-162. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2022.06.024
Komal Parmar, Jayvadan Patel. Cobalt Oxide‐engineered Nanomaterials for Environmental Remediation. 2022, 277-285. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119650294.ch17
Julia D. Bronzato, Aryane Tofanello, Martha T. Oliveira, Jefferson Bettini, Adrianne M.M. Brito, Silgia A. Costa, Sirlene M. Costa, Alexandre J.C. Lanfredi, Otaciro R. Nascimento, Iseli L. Nantes-Cardoso. Virucidal, photocatalytic and chiromagnetic cobalt oxide quantum dots. Applied Surface Science 2022, 576 , 151847. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2021.151847
Yuta Tsuji, Yuta Yoshioka, Mikiya Hori, Kazunari Yoshizawa. Exploring Metal Cluster Catalysts Using Swarm Intelligence: Start with Hydrogen Adsorption. Topics in Catalysis 2022, 65 (1-4) , 215-227. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-021-01512-2
Zhe Wang, Hui Shi, Shitu Yang, Zengjian Cai, Huaiqian Lu, Litao Jia, Mingzhen Hu, Hua He, Kebin Zhou. Oxygen vacancy-enriched Co3O4 as lithiophilic medium for ultra-stable anode of lithium metal batteries. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2021, 888 , 161553. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.161553
Sungil Hong, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Mechanistic understanding of methane-to-methanol conversion on graphene-stabilized single-atom iron centers. Catalysis Science & Technology 2021, 11 (19) , 6390-6400. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CY00826A
Yun Liu, Yuman Peng, Mathias Naschitzki, Sandy Gewinner, Wieland Schöllkopf, Helmut Kuhlenbeck, Rossitza Pentcheva, Beatriz Roldan Cuenya. Surface oxygen Vacancies on Reduced Co 3 O 4 (100): Superoxide Formation and Ultra‐Low‐Temperature CO Oxidation. Angewandte Chemie 2021, 133 (30) , 16650-16656. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202103359
Yun Liu, Yuman Peng, Mathias Naschitzki, Sandy Gewinner, Wieland Schöllkopf, Helmut Kuhlenbeck, Rossitza Pentcheva, Beatriz Roldan Cuenya. Surface oxygen Vacancies on Reduced Co 3 O 4 (100): Superoxide Formation and Ultra‐Low‐Temperature CO Oxidation. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2021, 60 (30) , 16514-16520. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202103359
Zhoufeng Bian, Houchuan Xia, Wenqi Zhong, Bo Jiang, Yang Yu, Zhigang Wang, Kewei Yu. CFD simulation on hydrogen-membrane reactor integrating cyclohexane dehydrogenation and CO2 methanation reactions: A conceptual study. Energy Conversion and Management 2021, 235 , 113989. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2021.113989
Mingyang Tan, Liang Zhu, Hao Liu, Yajun Fu, Shuang-Feng Yin, Weijun Yang. Microporous cobaltporphyrin covalent polymer mediated Co3O4@PNC nanocomposites for efficient catalytic C-H bond activation. Applied Catalysis A: General 2021, 614 , 118035. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2021.118035
Pengfei Du, Xin‐Xing Zhang, Shaoqian Zhang, Yang Zhao, Liyun Zhang, Bingsen Zhang, Bing Yang. CO x ‐Resistant Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane Catalyzed by sp 3 @sp 2 Nanodiamonds towards Highly Selective Cyclohexene Production. ChemCatChem 2021, 13 (2) , 610-616. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202001380
Man Ruan, Yan-Xia Zhao, Sheng-Gui He. Study on the Reaction of Nanosized Yttrium Oxide Cluster Anions with n -Butane in the Gas Phase. Acta Chimica Sinica 2021, 79 (4) , 490. https://doi.org/10.6023/A20110511
Mona Abdelgaid, James Dean, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Improving alkane dehydrogenation activity on γ-Al 2 O 3 through Ga doping. Catalysis Science & Technology 2020, 10 (21) , 7194-7202. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CY01474E
Troy D. Loeffler, Sukriti Manna, Tarak K. Patra, Henry Chan, Badri Narayanan, Subramanian Sankaranarayanan. Active Learning A Neural Network Model For Gold Clusters & Bulk From Sparse First Principles Training Data. ChemCatChem 2020, 12 (19) , 4796-4806. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202000774
Kaifeng Niu, Lifeng Chi, Johanna Rosen, Jonas Björk. C–H activation of light alkanes on MXenes predicted by hydrogen affinity. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 2020, 22 (33) , 18622-18630. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CP02471F
Ruchi Jain, Chinnakonda S. Gopinath. Electronic Structure Evolution of Pd@Co Nanocatalysts Under Oxidation and Reduction Conditions and Preferential CO Oxidation. ChemCatChem 2020, 12 (16) , 4176-4184. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202000644
Xuanyu Zhang, Rui You, Zeyue Wei, Xiao Jiang, Jiuzhong Yang, Yang Pan, Peiwen Wu, Qingdong Jia, Zhenghong Bao, Lei Bai, Mingzhou Jin, Bobby Sumpter, Victor Fung, Weixin Huang, Zili Wu. Radical Chemistry and Reaction Mechanisms of Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation over Hexagonal Boron Nitride Catalysts. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2020, 59 (21) , 8042-8046. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202002440
Xuanyu Zhang, Rui You, Zeyue Wei, Xiao Jiang, Jiuzhong Yang, Yang Pan, Peiwen Wu, Qingdong Jia, Zhenghong Bao, Lei Bai, Mingzhou Jin, Bobby Sumpter, Victor Fung, Weixin Huang, Zili Wu. Radical Chemistry and Reaction Mechanisms of Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation over Hexagonal Boron Nitride Catalysts. Angewandte Chemie 2020, 132 (21) , 8119-8123. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202002440
Avik Halder, Mai‐Anh Ha, Huanchen Zhai, Bing Yang, Michael J. Pellin, Sönke Seifert, Anastassia N. Alexandrova, Stefan Vajda. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane by Cu vs Pd Clusters: Selectivity Control by Specific Cluster Dynamics. ChemCatChem 2020, 12 (5) , 1307-1315. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201901795
Sibei Guo, Yu Han, Ling Guo. Mechanistic Study of Catalase- and Superoxide Dismutation-Mimic Activities of Cobalt Oxide Nanozyme from First-Principles Microkinetic Modeling. Catalysis Surveys from Asia 2020, 24 (1) , 70-85. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10563-019-09290-4
Avik Halder, Stefan Vajda. Synchrotron characterization of clusters for catalysis. 2020, 1-29. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-102515-4.00001-5
Subhashish Dey, Ganesh Chandra Dhal, Devendra Mohan, Ram Prasad. Synthesis of highly active Cobalt catalysts for low temperature CO oxidation. Chemical Data Collections 2019, 24 , 100283. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cdc.2019.100283
C. Maurizio, N. Michieli, B. Kalinic, A. Marafon, C. Scian, G. Mattei. Nanopatterned films of Co3O4 nanopetals. Thin Solid Films 2019, 691 , 137628. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tsf.2019.137628
Sungsik Lee, Avik Halder, Glen A. Ferguson, Sönke Seifert, Randall E. Winans, Detre Teschner, Robert Schlögl, Vasiliki Papaefthimiou, Jeffrey Greeley, Larry A. Curtiss, Stefan Vajda. Subnanometer cobalt oxide clusters as selective low temperature oxidative dehydrogenation catalysts. Nature Communications 2019, 10 (1) https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-08819-5
Peng Zhang, Jian Wang, Yu Jia, Wenqing Li, Xiaoling Tan, Dan Zhang, Shaonan Xu, Peiping Zhang, Cundi Wei, Shiding Miao. Encapsulating spinel nancrystals in Laponite cages and applications in molecular oxidation of cyclohexane. Applied Clay Science 2019, 181 , 105226. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clay.2019.105226
Ziyun Wang, P. Hu. Identifying the general trend of activity of non-stoichiometric metal oxide phases for CO oxidation on Pd(111). Science China Chemistry 2019, 62 (6) , 784-789. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-018-9445-7
Moisés da Costa Borges Soares, Felipe Fernandes Barbosa, Marco Antonio Morales Torres, Antoninho Valentini, Anderson dos Reis Albuquerque, Julio Ricardo Sambrano, Sibele B. C. Pergher, Nadine Essayem, Tiago Pinheiro Braga. Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene over the CoFe 2 O 4 –MCM-41 catalyst: preferential adsorption on the O 2− Fe 3+ O 2− sites located at octahedral positions. Catalysis Science & Technology 2019, 9 (10) , 2469-2484. https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CY00618D
Kittisak Choojun, Arucha Worathanaseth, Satu Kuhatasanadeekul, Teeraporn Kurato, Supanut Ketaniruj, Ploynisa Phichitsurathaworn, Pratya Promchana, Kittipong Prakobtham, Natthida Numwong, Yingyot Poo-arporn, Tawan Sooknoi. Effect of cobalt complex precursors on reactivity of cationic cobalt catalysts: Cyclohexane dehydrogenation. Catalysis Communications 2019, 125 , 108-113. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.catcom.2019.04.005
Zhigang Wang, Zhoufeng Bian, Nikita Dewangan, Jeff Xu, Sibudjing Kawi. High-performance catalytic perovskite hollow fiber membrane reactor for oxidative propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Membrane Science 2019, 578 , 36-42. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2019.02.012
Chandima Weerakkody, Dinithi Rathnayake, Junkai He, Biswanath Dutta, Peter Kerns, Laura Achola, Steven L. Suib. Enhanced Catalytic Properties of Molybdenum Promoted Mesoporous Cobalt Oxide: Structure‐Surface‐Dependent Activity for Selective Synthesis of 2‐Substituted Benzimidazoles. ChemCatChem 2019, 11 (1) , 528-537. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201801085
V. Cortés Corberán, V. Rives, V. Stathopoulos. Recent Applications of Nanometal Oxide Catalysts in Oxidation Reactions. 2019, 227-293. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-814807-5.00007-3
G. Anandhababu, G. Ravi. Facile synthesis of quantum sized C o 3 O 4 nanostructures and their magnetic properties. Nano-Structures & Nano-Objects 2018, 15 , 1-9. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoso.2018.03.005
Avik Halder, Martina Kilianová, Bing Yang, Eric C. Tyo, Soenke Seifert, Robert Prucek, Aleš Panáček, Petr Suchomel, Ondřej Tomanec, David J. Gosztola, David Milde, Hsien-Hau Wang, Libor Kvítek, Radek Zbořil, Stefan Vajda. Highly efficient Cu-decorated iron oxide nanocatalyst for low pressure CO2 conversion. Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2018, 225 , 128-138. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2017.11.047
Georgios Giannakakis, Antonios Trimpalis, Junjun Shan, Zhen Qi, Sufeng Cao, Jilei Liu, Jianchao Ye, Juergen Biener, Maria Flytzani-Stephanopoulos. NiAu Single Atom Alloys for the Non-oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethanol to Acetaldehyde and Hydrogen. Topics in Catalysis 2018, 61 (5-6) , 475-486. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-017-0883-0
Victor Fung, Franklin (Feng) Tao, De‐en Jiang. Trends of Alkane Activation on Doped Cobalt (II, III) Oxide from First Principles. ChemCatChem 2018, 10 (1) , 244-249. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700960
Victor Fung, Felipe Polo-Garzon, Zili Wu, De-en Jiang. Exploring perovskites for methane activation from first principles. Catalysis Science & Technology 2018, 8 (3) , 702-709. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CY01791J
Allegra A. Latimer, Ambarish R. Kulkarni, Hassan Aljama, Joseph H. Montoya, Jong Suk Yoo, Charlie Tsai, Frank Abild-Pedersen, Felix Studt, Jens K. Nørskov. Understanding trends in C–H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis. Nature Materials 2017, 16 (2) , 225-229. https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4760
Arindam Indra, Prashanth W. Menezes, Chittaranjan Das, Caren Göbel, Massimo Tallarida, Dieter Schmeiβer, Matthias Driess. A facile corrosion approach to the synthesis of highly active CoO x water oxidation catalysts. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2017, 5 (10) , 5171-5177. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA10650A
Marcin Krajewski. Magnetic-field-induced synthesis of magnetic wire-like micro- and nanostructures. Nanoscale 2017, 9 (43) , 16511-16545. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR05823C
Michael J. Pellin, Shannon C. Riha, Eric C. Tyo, Gihan Kwon, Joseph A. Libera, Jeffrey W. Elam, Soenke. Seifert, Sungsik Lee, Stefan Vajda. Water Oxidation by Size‐Selected Co 27 Clusters Supported on Fe 2 O 3. ChemSusChem 2016, 9 (20) , 3005-3011. https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201600982
Scott L. Nauert, Fabian Schax, Christian Limberg, Justin M. Notestein. Cyclohexane oxidative dehydrogenation over copper oxide catalysts. Journal of Catalysis 2016, 341 , 180-190. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.07.002
Jinhui Lu, JiaJia Song, Hongling Niu, Lun Pan, Xiangwen Zhang, Li Wang, Ji-Jun Zou. Periodic density functional theory study of ethylene hydrogenation over Co3O4 (1 1 1) surface: The critical role of oxygen vacancies. Applied Surface Science 2016, 371 , 61-66. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.02.209
Grant E. Johnson, Don Gunaratne, Julia Laskin. Soft‐ and reactive landing of ions onto surfaces: Concepts and applications. Mass Spectrometry Reviews 2016, 35 (3) , 439-479. https://doi.org/10.1002/mas.21451
Anja Dallinger, Ilka Duldhardt, Jan Kabisch, Rabea Schlüter, Frieder Schauer. Biotransformation of cyclohexane and related alicyclic hydrocarbons by Candida maltosa and Trichosporon species. International Biodeterioration & Biodegradation 2016, 107 , 132-139. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibiod.2015.11.015
Victor Fung, Franklin (Feng) Tao, De-en Jiang. Understanding oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane on Co 3 O 4 nanorods from density functional theory. Catalysis Science & Technology 2016, 6 (18) , 6861-6869. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY00749J
S. Aghamammadova, I. Nagieva, L. Gasanova, T. Nagiev, , , . Kinetics and Mechanism of the Reaction of Coherently Synchronized Oxidation and Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane by Hydrogen Peroxide. MATEC Web of Conferences 2016, 49 , 01002. https://doi.org/10.1051/matecconf/20164901002
Han Wang, Chunlin Chen, Yexin Zhang, Lixia Peng, Song Ma, Teng Yang, Huaihong Guo, Zhidong Zhang, Dang Sheng Su, Jian Zhang. In situ oxidation of carbon-encapsulated cobalt nanocapsules creates highly active cobalt oxide catalysts for hydrocarbon combustion. Nature Communications 2015, 6 (1) https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms8181
Load all citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 11, 2409–2423
https://doi.org/10.1021/cs300479a
Published October 2, 2012
Copyright © 2012 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
5303
Altmetric
-
Citations
112
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Cyclohexane Oxidative Dehydrogenation on Graphene-Oxide-Supported Cobalt Ferrite Nanohybrids: Effect of Dynamic Nature of Active Sites on Reaction Selectivity
October 5, 2023ACS Catalysis
Shashikant A. Kadam*, Stefania Sandoval, Zdeněk Bastl, 
Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides
August 27, 2014Chemical Reviews
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler, Javier Ruiz-Martinez, Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic of system setup for combined in situ GISAXS, GIXAS, and TPRx experiments. Reprinted from ref 16.
Figure 2
Figure 2. DFT+U (U = 3) calculated electronic band structure near the Fermi level of Co3O4 bulk structure along several high symmetry lines in the FCC Brillouin zone.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Representative TEM image of as synthesized cobalt oxide nanoparticles of two main sizes, 6 nm (a) and 12 nm (d), and corresponding size distribution (b, and e). XRD pattern of as synthesized bulk samples: (c) 6 nm particles, (f) 12 nm particles; cubic Co3O4 (stars), hexagonal CoOOH (squares).
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Representative HAADF-STEM image of as prepared cobalt oxide nanoparticles of 6 nm main size; (b) high-resolution image. The inset in (b) is an atomic model of the spinel structure of Co3O4 for the cluster marked A.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Co K-edge XANES spectra of the 12 nm Co3O4 nanoparticles under ODH conditions. Presented are the spectra from the starting temperature (25 °C start), at 225 °C, 250 °C, 300 °C and after cooling back the sample to room temperature (25 °C end). (b) XANES spectra of cobalt standards Co metal, Al2CoO4, Co2O3, CoO, Co(OH)2, and Co3O4. The corresponding derivatives of the spectra are shown in (c) and (d).
Figure 6
Figure 6. Temperature dependent evolution of the horizontal size distribution of the 6 nm (a) and 12 nm (b) particles and their assemblies during the reaction. Select temperatures are shown for clarity. The lines in the plots indicate the main sizes identified by the analysis of the GISAXS data.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Temperature programmed reaction profiles for the ODH of cyclohexane on Co3O4 nanoparticles of 6 nm size. The masses monitored for the individual species are shown in the plot as well. The scales of each reactant and product are listed in TOR per total cobalt atom basis, carbon based. (A blank alumina support, i.e., support without clusters, tested under identical conditions showed no activity.).
Figure 8
Figure 8. Carbon-based selectivities for the carbonaceous products for the ODH of cyclohexane by Co3O4 6 nm nanoparticles at (a) 225 °C, (b) initially setting the temperature to 300 °C, and (c) after 1 h of reaction at 300 °C. Also presented are the percent of carbonaceous products created during the ODH of cyclohexane by 12 nm Co3O4 nanoparticles at (d) 225 °C, (e) initially setting the temperature to 300 °C, and (f) after 1 h of reaction at 300 °C.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Heterolytic reaction paths for the first C–H bond activation of propane over Co3O4 surfaces. Top: Cotetr-O3f(b) site pair of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, center: Coocta-O3f site pair of Type B (110) surface, bottom: Coocta-O2f site pair of Type B (110) surface.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Homolytic reaction paths for the first C–H bond activation of propane over Co3O4 surfaces. From top to bottom: O3f(a) site of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, O3f(b) site of Cotetr-terminated (111) surface, O2f site of Type B (110) surface, and O3f site of Type B (110) surface.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Linear correlation between C–H bond activation barrier at various surface oxygen site and the hydrogen affinity of the corresponding site.
Figure 12
Figure 12. DFT + U calculated potential energy diagram of plausible reaction pathways of propane dehydrogenation toward propene over Co3O4 Type B (110) surface. The energies are shown in kJ mol–1.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Plausible reaction mechanisms for water desorption on (110) B surface. (1) Extraction of water formed by a hydroxylated O2f and the H from a vicinal hydroxyl; (2) desorption of water formed by an excess O abstracting two H from vicinal surface hydroxyls.
Figure 14
Figure 14. DFT + U calculated potential energy diagram of the regeneration of (110)B O2f sites by filling the O vacancy with O2.