Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO
model catalysts: II. Nature of active sites and reaction mechanism
Pierre Schwach, Neil Hamilton, Maik Eichelbaum, Lukas Thum, Thomas Lunkenbein, Robert Schlögl,
Annette Trunschke ⇑
Department of Inorganic Chemistry, Fritz-Haber-Institut der Max-Planck-Gesellschaft e.V., Faradayweg 4-6, 14195 Berlin, Germany
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Available online xxxx
Keywords:
MgO
Oxidative coupling
Methane
Active site
Infrared
Photoluminescence
EPR
CO adsorption
Defects
Reaction mechanism
a b s t r a c t
A series of pure, nanostructured magnesium oxides prepared by different synthesis techniques that show
different initial, but similar steady-state activity in the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM) (Schwach
et al., submitted for publication) has been studied by infrared and photoluminescence spectroscopy in
the dehydroxylated state before the reaction and after catalysis. The abundance of structural defects,
in particular mono-atomic steps, on the dehydroxylated MgO surface characterized by a band in the
FTIR spectrum of adsorbed CO at 2146 cm1 and Lewis acid/base pairs probed by co-adsorption of CO
and CH4 correlate with the initial rates of both methane consumption and C2+ hydrocarbon formation.
Infrared spectroscopy evidences strong polarization of C–H bonds due to adsorption of methane on dehy-
droxylated MgO surfaces that contain a high number of mono-atomic steps. It is postulated that these
sites effectively promote intermolecular charge transfer between adsorbed methane and weakly
adsorbed oxygen that leads to the dissociation of one C–H bond in the methane molecule and simultane-
ous formation of a superoxide species. Heterolytic splitting of C–H bonds in the presence of oxygen at the
surface of dehydroxylated MgO already at room temperature has been proven by the appearance of an
EPR signal associated with superoxide species that are located in close vicinity to a proton. With time
on stream, MgO sinters and loses activity. The deactivation process involves the depletion of
mono-atomic steps and the reconstruction of the MgO termination under formation of polar and faceted
surfaces.
 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The activation of C–H bonds in the chemically rather inert
methane molecule is an academically challenging goal with
prospective industrial signiﬁcance in view of the demands to make
new resources, such as natural gas, accessible for the manufacture
of base chemicals and intermediates. In a kinetic study [1], we
investigated the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM) over pure
magnesium oxide involving ﬁve differently prepared model cata-
lysts that differ in particular in the nanostructure of the surface.
The performance of dehydroxylated MgO at the beginning of the
reaction (at t = 0) and the kinetics of catalyst deactivation strongly
depend on initial particle morphology and surface texture, whereas
similar catalyst properties are ﬁnally approached in the steady
state. The ‘‘MgO inherent’’ steady-state activity is, however, rather
low [1]. Therefore, it appears desirable to identify the nature of the
highly active surface sites on the surface of freshly dehydroxylated
MgO and to explore options to stabilize this productive state of the
catalyst. Tuning the catalyst performance using rational design
approaches also requires knowledge about the deactivation mech-
anism to decide whether stabilization strategies may have any rea-
sonable prospects.
The kinetic investigation of MgO in OCM (Part I of this work) [1]
implies a dynamic change of the reaction mechanism(s) with time
on stream. Electron microscopy indicates an impact of structural
defects on the surface of MgO on reactivity and evidences signiﬁ-
cant changes in morphology and termination of the primary cata-
lyst particles with time [1]. Hence, the current part of the work
(Part II) is devoted to the characterization of type and relative
abundance of structural defects, that is, coordinatively unsaturated
sites, at the surface of freshly dehydroxylated MgO prepared by
different synthesis techniques. FTIR spectroscopy of adsorbed
probe molecules [2,3], photoluminescence, and EPR spectroscopy
[4–7] have been proven beneﬁcial in the analysis of MgO and have
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
0021-9517/ 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
⇑Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: schwachp@fhi-berlin.mpg.de (P. Schwach), hamilton.neilg@
googlemail.com (N. Hamilton), me@fhi-berlin.mpg.de (M. Eichelbaum), thum@
fhi-berlin.mpg.de
(L.
Thum),
lunkenbein@fhi-berlin.mpg.de
(T.
Lunkenbein),
acsek@fhi-berlin.mpg.de (R. Schlögl), trunschke@fhi-berlin.mpg.de (A. Trunschke).
Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Catalysis
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
been applied in the present investigation. The results of the spec-
troscopic analysis will be linked to the kinetic data acquired in
Part I [1].
Based on sound spectroscopic evidence, we postulate that
weakly adsorbed methane and oxygen undergo a concerted reaction
mechanism that involves direct electron transfer from a C–H bond of
the methane to the oxygen molecule. The dehydroxylated MgO
surface assists the polarization of the methane molecule by
providing highly speciﬁc adsorption sites at mono-atomic steps
and the underlying terrace that facilitates the reaction of methane
with weakly adsorbed oxygen effectively. These sites, however, dis-
appear with time on stream under reaction conditions of oxidative
methanecoupling. Possible mechanisticscenarios in the deactivated
state of MgO under the steady-state conditions will be discussed.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalysts and chemicals
The present study was performed using the same catalysts that
have been analyzed in the kinetic investigation in Part I [1] includ-
ing commercially available ultra-pure MgO from Alfa Aesar
(C-MgO), hydrothermally treated C-MgO applying ambient pres-
sure (HT-MgO) or elevated pressure using a microwave autoclave
(MW-MgO), MgO prepared by sol–gel synthesis (SG-MgO), and
MgO prepared by combustion of metallic Mg in air (S-MgO). The
synthesis methods and the microstructural properties of the cata-
lysts determined by nitrogen adsorption, X-ray diffraction, and
electron microscopy have been described in detail in Part I [1].
The purity of nitrogen, argon, and oxygen (Westfalen AG) used
for the spectroscopic characterization of the catalysts was 99.999%.
Methane and CO used for the FTIR experiments (purity 99.999%)
were delivered by MESSER. Methane-d4 (purity 99.98%) was pur-
chased by Sigma-Aldrich.
2.2. Infrared spectroscopy
FTIR spectroscopy was carried out using a Perkin–Elmer
Spectrum 100 spectrometer equipped with a MCT detector. The
spectra were recorded at a resolution of 4 cm1 accumulating 64
scans. Self-supported wafers were obtained by pressing the pow-
dered catalysts under a pressure of 123 MPa. The wafers were
transferred into an IR cell that is connected to a vacuum system,
which allows to achieve a residual pressure of ca. 1  105 Pa.
Prior to the adsorption of gases, the catalysts were heated in
2  104 Pa O2 at 1128 K (heating rate 10 K min1) for 3 h. For
low-temperature adsorption experiments, the sample was subse-
quently cooled in vacuum to room temperature. Then, the sample
chamber was charged with 200 Pa partial pressure of He used as a
heat transfer agent and cooled to 77 K with liquid nitrogen. At ﬁrst,
a background spectrum was recorded in 200 Pa of He by removing
the wafer from the beam. This spectrum serves as a background for
the spectrum of the pure, freshly pretreated catalyst. The adsorp-
tion measurements were performed in the following order: (1)
the addition of CH4 at various pressures up to an equilibrium pres-
sure of 200 Pa CH4 (total pressure 400 Pa CH4 + He); (2) evacuation
at 77 K until the baseline was fully recovered; (3) the addition of
200 Pa He and stepwise adsorption of CO up to partial pressure
of 200 Pa CO (total pressure 400 Pa CO + He); and (4) the subse-
quent adsorption of CH4 up to partial pressure of 200 Pa CH4 (total
pressure 600 Pa CO + CH4 + He). Difference spectra were obtained
through the subtraction of the absorbance spectrum of the catalyst
in 200 Pa He from the absorbance spectrum of the sample in pres-
ence of the gases. All presented spectra have been normalized to
the post-measurement areal density of the sample wafer.
2.3. EPR spectroscopy
Continuous wave (C.W.) X-band EPR spectra were recorded at
liquid nitrogen temperature on a Bruker ESP 300 E spectrometer
equipped with a X-band microwave bridge Bruker ER 042 MRH
E. A Bruker ER 4116 DM resonator operating in the TE 102 mode
(f  9.5 GHz) was used. The spectra were recorded with a modula-
tion frequency of 100 kHz and a microwave power of 2 mW. The
frequency and g values were calibrated using the
52Cr line at
g = 1.9796 of Cr3+-doped MgO as internal standard placed inside
the resonator. The catalyst samples were ﬁlled in a quartz cell
equipped with Teﬂon Duran valves and connected to a vacuum
system that allows the dosing of gases. Before EPR measurements,
the MgO catalysts were activated at 1073 K under dynamic
vacuum (104–105 Pa) for 3 h. Methane (p = 1  104 Pa) and oxygen
(p = 1000 Pa) were subsequently dosed at room temperature, and
the system was equilibrated under these conditions for 30 min.
Then, the cell was evacuated, the Teﬂon Duran
valves were closed,
and the evacuated cell was put into the EPR resonator equipped
with a quartz Dewar vessel containing liquid N2 to cool the sample
to 77 K and to perform the EPR measurement. EPR spectra were
simulated using the Matlab implementation EasySpin [8] in order
to obtain a best ﬁt for g-tensors and hyperﬁne coupling constants.
2.4. Diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy
The in situ UV–Vis experiments were performed in the range
between 200 and 800 nm using a Perkin Elmer Lambda 650 spec-
trometer equipped with a diffuse reﬂectance accessory (Praying
Mantis, Harrick). The catalysts were investigated in powdered form
in an environmental chamber attachment (Harrick HVC-VUV-4)
using Spectralon as white standard. In this chamber, the catalysts
were pretreated in situ at 923 K for 30 min under vacuum (lower
than 1  103 Pa). Subsequently, the chamber was cooled in
dynamic vacuum, and the spectra were recorded at 313 K.
2.5. Electron microscopy
High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM)
images were recorded on a Cs-corrected FEI Titan 80-300 at an
acceleration voltage of 300 kV.
2.6. Photoluminescence
Photoluminescence spectra were recorded on a Perkin Elmer
LS-55 spectrometer at room temperature under dynamic vacuum
at a pressure lower than 5  104 Pa. The spectrometer was
equipped
with
a
red-sensitive
photomultiplier
R928
from
Hamamatsu Photonics that allows the detection of emissions in
the range between 200 and 900 nm. The spectra were recorded with
an emission and excitation slit opening of 2.5 nm, a scanning speed
of 20 nm/min, and an emission ﬁlter of 350 nm in order to suppress
direct light scattering from excitation. The catalyst powder was
located in a ﬂat SUPRASIL quartz cell from Hellma-Analytics with
a path length of 2 mm. The cell was connected to a vacuum and
gas dosing line. Before measurement, the catalysts were heated at
1073 K in a dynamic vacuum for 6 h. Before catalytic testing, the
materials were measured as powder, while the used catalysts were
pressed into pellets of the size of the photoluminescence cell.
3. Results
The magnesium oxide catalysts studied in oxidative coupling of
methane in Part I differ in their morphology [1]. The trend in speci-
ﬁc surface area is not directly related to the mean crystallite size
2
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
determined by XRD indicating that surface texturing contributes
substantially to the surface area measured by nitrogen adsorption.
However, sintering phenomena are observed for all catalysts after
use in the oxidative coupling of methane at 1073 K for approxi-
mately 300 h time on stream. The domain size determined by
XRD increases substantially except in the case of S-MgO that shows
a slight size reduction in the initially very large particles [1]. In
agreement with a similar size of the coherently scattering domains
in the used catalysts, the speciﬁc surface area of all the used cata-
lysts is similar and varies between 7 and 12 m2/g. Sintering is also
visible by TEM and SEM [1]. After catalysis, the morphology of the
primary particles is much more rounded. The characteristic sharp
edges and corners of the cubic structure have disappeared, and
pseudo {110} and {111} faces consisting of stepped edges
between {100} planes and numerous corners have formed. The
sintering is accompanied by catalyst deactivation. With the aim
to learn more about potential active sites on the surface of fresh,
dehydroxylated MgO, and their depletion under reaction condi-
tions, transmission infrared spectroscopy was used. CO adsorption
at 77 K provides information on coordinatively unsaturated Mg2+
adsorption sites (Lewis acid sites), while adsorption of methane
probes
both
acidic
(cationic)
and
basic
(anionic)
sites.
Co-adsorption of methane and carbon monoxide reveals the rela-
tive abundance of acid–base and basic sites.
3.1. IR spectroscopy
3.1.1. Calcined MgO
3.1.1.1. CO adsorption. The adsorption of carbon monoxide at low
temperatures results in the appearance of carbonyl bands that
are shifted to higher energy compared to the C–O stretching mode
of the free CO molecule at 2143 cm1 due to the formation of
r-donor bonds via the carbon atom of the CO molecule to coordi-
natively unsaturated surface cations [9]. The shift to higher wave
number is a result of the Stark effect associated with the positive
electric ﬁeld of the adsorptive cation. When no d-electrons are
involved, the shift is proportional to the strength of the electric
ﬁeld sensed by CO [10,11]. As a reasonable ﬁrst approximation,
the effective electric ﬁeld experienced by CO adsorbed on a catio-
nic site is a result of the contribution of the cation and the anions of
the ﬁrst coordination sphere. Thus, when the number of anions
surrounding a Mg2+ adsorption site decreases, the negative contri-
bution to the electric ﬁeld decreases and, hence, the effective
positive ﬁeld experienced by the adsorbed CO increases.
Bands arising below 2000 cm1 are attributed to carbonite
anions or similar polymeric structures reﬂecting the strong basic
character of the MgO surface [12,13]. These species are formed
by interaction of the CO molecule with coordinatively unsaturated
oxygen ions [12].
Fig. 1 exemplarily presents infrared spectra of CO adsorbed on
C-MgO at 77 K and shows the development of C@O stretching
bands as a function of increasing CO pressure. At this low adsorp-
tion temperature, only negligible traces of carbonite species were
observed (Fig. 1A). In the following, the spectra are, therefore, pre-
sented and analyzed exclusively in the range between 2100 and
2200 cm1. At low pressures, that is, up to ca. 7 Pa, a broad feature
due to superimposed contributions of bands at 2146, 2157, and
2164 cm1 is discernible (Fig. 1B). With increasing equilibrium
pressure of CO, the bands at 2146 cm1 and 2164 cm1 are more
and more obscured by the most intense band that shifts from
2157 cm1 to 2152 cm1. Spoto et al. [2] discussed two sets of
bands located at 2150–2145 cm1 and 2180–2160 cm1, respec-
tively, formed upon the adsorption of CO on the MgO surface at
60 K. The 2150–2145 cm1 bands exhibit a maximum located at
ca. 2150 cm1 with a shoulder at 2140 cm1, which are similar to
the features observed at 2156 and 2146 cm1 in Fig. 1B. Such
signals are reported to be strongly attenuated as the MgO crystals
become more ordered and are found to be completely absent from
spectra of nearly perfect well-ordered MgO cubelets prepared by
combustion of metallic Mg (‘‘smoke synthesis’’) [2]. The signal
located at 2146 cm1 is assigned to a CO species bonded to
Mg2+
4C–Mg2+
5C pairs at mono-atomic step edges, either through both
the carbon end coordinated to a Mg2+
4C site at the edge and the oxygen
end coordinated to a Mg2+
5C site located at the subjacent terrace or
through the carbon end only as bridged species [2]. Computational
studies indicate that CO coordination via carbon only in form of a
bridged complex is more likely [14]. Trionfetti et al. observed this
band also after CO adsorption on Li/MgO catalysts, but with increas-
ing Li content, the contribution of the step sites decreases [15],
which is in agreement of the ‘‘ironing’’ effect of alkali additives [16].
The band located at 2157–2152 cm1 has been assigned to Mg2+
5C
on (100) terrace sites [2]. Note that the feature observed at ca.
2146 cm1 in Fig. 1B is swallowed up and ﬁnally completely
obscured by the band associated with terrace sites located at
2152 cm1 at higher equilibrium pressures. This observation is con-
sistent with the ﬁndings of Spoto et al. [2] who argued that CO is
adsorbed to pairs of Mg2+ cations at low pressures in bridged conﬁg-
uration, while at higher pressure, this conﬁguration is displaced by a
1:1 ratio between Mg2+ centers and adsorbed CO. Features located in
the range between 2180 and 2160 cm1 are typically assigned to
terminal CO adsorbed on Mg2+
4C centers [2,15], which occur at the
Fig. 1. IR spectra of CO adsorbed on C-MgO at T = 77 K with increasing equilibrium
pressure from p = 2.9 Pa to p = 210 Pa. (A) Entire range of carbonyl and carbonite
vibrations. (B) Evolution of carbonyl bands as a function of the CO equilibrium
pressure. Inset: Enlarged representation of carbonyl bands assigned to CO adsorbed
on 3-fold-coordinated Mg2+ cations.
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
3
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
surface as edges of either mono-atomic or multi-atomic steps,
respectively. We therefore assign the band located at 2164 cm1 in
Fig. 1B to CO adsorbed on edge sites. Spoto et al. reported a band
located at 2205–2200 cm1 at low CO pressure that shows a red shift
toward 2185 cm1 at higher CO pressure [2]. They tentatively
assigned this band to CO adsorbed on Mg2+
3C species (corners). A
shoulder around 2185 cm1 was detected with all MgO catalysts;
however, the band at 2202 cm1 was observed only for C-, SG-,
and MW-MgO (e.g., see inset in Fig. 1B).
In summary, the spectra presented in Fig. 1 are consistent with
the nanostructured MgO that exposes coordinatively unsaturated
Mg2+ sites in ﬁvefold, fourfold, and threefold coordinations at the
surface. The fourfold-coordinated Mg cations comprise edges at
mono-atomic as well as multi-atomic steps.
Fig. 2 presents CO adsorption isotherms determined by plotting
the integrated area of the entire mCO band as a function of the CO
equilibrium pressure at 77 K. The differences in the maximum
integrated area reﬂect both the surface area and surface nanostruc-
ture of the differently prepared MgO catalysts. Assuming that the
‘‘knee’’ in each isotherm (Fig. 2A) corresponds to monolayer cover-
age, that is, h = 1, the y-axis on each isotherm may be replaced by
surface coverage, h (Fig. 2B). In this manner, the equilibrium pres-
sure of CO required to achieve a speciﬁc surface coverage was
determined. Since, as established by Fig. 1B, the coordination of
adsorbed CO is dependent on surface coverage, this procedure
allows a more reliable comparison of the differently prepared
MgO catalysts.
In Fig. 3, the spectra of the adsorbed CO at h = 0.15 are com-
pared for all catalysts. At such a low coverage, we expect that
coupling effects between neighboring CO molecules are negligible.
The difference in the total peak area follows the trend of the speci-
ﬁc surface area (for speciﬁc surface areas determined by nitrogen
adsorption at 77 K see the numbers in brackets in the legend of
Fig. 3). For example, S-MgO exhibits the lowest total integrated
intensity and has the lowest surface area of only 11 m2/g, whereas
MW-MgO, which exhibits the largest intensity, has the highest sur-
face area of 111 m2/g indicating that the overall intensity is not
strongly affected by the relative abundance of different Mg2+ sites
exposed at the catalyst surface, that is, the extinction coefﬁcients
of CO adsorbed on different Mg2+ sites seem to be similar.
The MgO catalyst prepared by smoke synthesis, S-MgO, exhibits
the simplest spectrum, which is dominated by a signal at
2156 cm1 that is associated with Mg2+
5C terrace sites. A weak shoul-
der located at 2164 cm1 is attributed to Mg2+
4C centers located at
cubelet edges and/or multi-atomic step defects. The spectrum of
CO adsorbed on C-MgO exhibits generally higher intensity and is
dominated by terrace sites (2156 cm1); however, the relative con-
tribution
of
features
associated
with
mono-atomic
steps
(2146 cm1) is enhanced compared to S-MgO. Sol–gel prepared
MgO, SG-MgO, exhibits more terrace sites and mono-atomic steps,
while
the
contribution
from
edges
at
multi-atomic
steps
(2164 cm1) is similar to that of C-MgO. Hydrothermally treated
MgO, HT-MgO, features a major contribution from terrace sites
(2156 cm1) with a visible shoulder located at 2164 cm1 due to
edge sites at multi-atomic step defects. The contribution from
mono-atomic step defects is reduced relative to both C-MgO and
SG-MgO.
Finally,
MgO
prepared
by
hydrothermal
microwave
post-treatment, MW-MgO, exhibits a rather broad band with a max-
imum located at 2156 cm1 indicating the predominance of terrace
sites. However, due to the width of the band, the presence of signals
associated with edge sites and mono-atomic step defects cannot be
excluded. Indeed, inspection of the associated TEM image of
MW-MgO (Fig. 4) indicates that edge sites and mono-atomic steps
are indeed present.
In summary, the differently prepared and freshly calcined
magnesium oxides differ in the total concentration of coordinatively
unsaturated Mg2+ surface sites at the surface. The total number of
cationic sites probed by CO adsorption at h = 0.15 displays the same
trend as the total surface area determined by nitrogen adsorption.
More importantly, the relative abundance of the different types of
sites differs. S-MgO, for instance, shows no mono-atomic steps,
while the concentration of the latter seems to be the highest on
MW-MgO.
Fig. 2. Integrated area of the peaks of adsorbed CO as a function of the equilibrium
CO pressure at 77 K (A) and the derived adsorption isotherms (B). The integrated
area was determined using spectra normalized with respect to the mass of the
wafer.
Fig. 3. Spectra of CO adsorbed on MgO at T = 77 K at a coverage of h = 0.15. The
numbers in brackets in the legend correspond to the speciﬁc surface areas of the
catalysts in m2/g. (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend,
the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
4
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
3.1.1.2. Methane adsorption. The IR spectrum of the free CH4 mole-
cule is characterized by the triply degenerate antisymmetric
stretching mode m3 at 3020 cm1 and the twofold degenerate
H–C–H deformation mode m4 at 1306 cm1 [17–19]. The infrared
spectrum of CH4 adsorbed at 77 K on C-MgO (Fig. 5, red line) shows
bands at 3003, 2896, and 2827 cm1 in the region of C–H stretch-
ing vibrations and a band at 1304 cm1 in the region of deforma-
tion vibrations. The shift of 17 cm1 compared to the gas phase
m3 mode and the appearance of a band at 2896 cm1 due to the
infrared-forbidden m1 stretching vibration (Raman band of the free
molecule at 2914 cm1) [17] indicate that the methane is consider-
ably polarized upon adsorption, which goes along with a reduction
of the Td symmetry of the molecule. However, the m4 deformation
mode located at 1304 cm1 is practically not shifted with respect
to gas phase CH4. The m2 mode (Raman band of the free molecule
at
1526 cm1)
remains
IR
inactive.
The
band
located
at
2827 cm1 (Fig. 5) may be assigned to a combination mode of m4
and m2. The observed bands are attributed to methane interacting
with coordinatively unsaturated sites at the surface of C-MgO.
Methane adsorption on regular {100} MgO terrace sites has been
excluded based on theoretical and experimental studies [17]. It is
generally assumed that methane adsorbs on MgO in either mon-
odentate
coordination
on
basic
Lewis
sites
(coordinatively
unsaturated O2 at corners only) or polydentate coordination on
Mg2+–O2 Lewis acid/base pairs at edges (Scheme 1) [17,18]. DFT
calculations support the hypothesis that methane prefers polyden-
tate coordination at edges [17]. Li et al. observed two m1 C–H
stretching modes located at 2900 and 2890 cm1, respectively,
which were attributed to methane strongly adsorbed on two differ-
ent acid–base pairs on the surface of MgO [18]. In their study, they
found only one m3 mode, which shows a considerable redshift to
3000 cm1, that was attributed to the adsorption on acid–base
pairs. Furthermore, methane weakly adsorbed on coordinatively
unsaturated oxygen anions at corners was assumed to result in a
smaller redshift of the m3 mode to about 3008 cm1 without signif-
icant reduction of the symmetry of the molecule and, conse-
quently, the absence of the IR-forbidden m1 mode [18]. We
noticed that for the MgO catalysts considered here, a band at
2890 cm1 was not observed unless a high pressure (ca. >700 Pa)
of CH4 was admitted. At such equilibrium pressures, signals associ-
ated with gas phase CH4 are already signiﬁcant indicating that the
corresponding
surface
species
is
rather
weakly
adsorbed.
Irrespective of the conﬂicting assignments in the literature, broad-
ness and shape of the observed m3 and m1 C–H stretching bands
indicate that various different coordination complexes of adsorbed
methane are present on the surface of C-MgO. This deduction is
entirely consistent with the different Mg2+ environments revealed
by IR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO (Figs. 1 and 3).
Fig. 4. High-resolution TEM images of MW-MgO viewed along [100]. The inset in (A) shows a power spectrum, which allows to identify the orientation of the MgO crystal.
(B) represents a higher magniﬁed micrograph of (A) taken at the marked region of interest. The mono-atomic steps at the surface are clearly visible and marked by arrows.
Fig. 5. Adsorption of ca. 10 Pa CH4 at T = 77 K on pretreated C-MgO (red line) and
after pre-adsorption of 200 Pa CO (black line). (For interpretation of the references
to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this
article.)
Scheme 1. Coordination of methane and CO at the MgO surface.
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
5
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
The spectrum of adsorbed methane shows additional bands in
the region of O–H stretching vibrations at 3728, 3680, and
3660 cm1 (Fig. 5, red line). The wave numbers are characteristic
of Mg–OH species in different coordination [20]. Interestingly,
these bands that have to the best of our knowledge not yet been
reported in the literature for methane adsorption on MgO disap-
pear along with the other methane bands upon evacuation at
77 K (Supporting information, Fig. S1). This indicates that they
are due to a very weakly bound surface species. The mOH signal
could be caused by dissociative adsorption of methane, whereby
new hydroxy and methyl groups are formed on neighboring O2
and Mg2+ sites, respectively. However, the fact that the signals
were completely removed by evacuation at 77 K (Fig. S1) renders
this explanation rather unlikely. Therefore, these features are ten-
tatively assigned to hydrogen-bonded moieties (–Mg–O  H–CH3)
present in dihapto methane adsorption complexes. Apparently,
adsorption sites on MgO are capable of polarizing the C–H bonds
in such a way that not only the IR inactive vibrations of CH4, but
also discrete mOH signals due to hydrogen atoms of methane, which
interact with O2 sites at the MgO surface, become visible. The
interaction geometry of methane with acid–base pair sites pro-
posed by Li et al. [18] certainly implies an agostic interaction
between C–H and the acid–base pair, which could then lead to a
polarization of the adsorbed methane possibly resulting in an
enhanced interaction between the neighboring basic O2 and the
methyl hydrogen. The fact that the –Mg–O  H–CH3 features are
not observed in the co-adsorption experiments, where Mg2+ cen-
ters are saturated by CO (Fig. 5, black line), indicates that they must
be associated with acid–base pair sites only, because CO blocks
these sites (Scheme 1 and discussion below).
Reference experiments, including adsorption of water, metha-
nol, and hydrogen at 77 K (results not shown), revealed that impu-
rities in methane are excluded as origin of the O–H stretching
vibrations observed during methane adsorption. To verify with
certainty that the observed mOH signal is indeed caused by the
polarization of a C–H bond, the adsorption of deuterated methane
(CD4) was studied by FTIR spectroscopy. Fig. 6 represents the infra-
red spectrum of CD4 adsorbed on C-MgO at 77 K. CH4 adsorption at
the same pressure is shown in Fig. S1. The antisymmetric stretch-
ing mode m3 of free CD4 is red shifted from 2259 cm1 to
2248 cm1,
and
the
deformation
mode m4
is
shifted
from
996 cm1 to 992 cm1 indicating polarization of the molecule like
in case of CH4. At least three new bands appear at 3234, 3086, and
2927 cm1 (OD-stretching region enlarged in Fig. 6B). The intensity
of these bands increases with increasing CD4 equilibrium pressure
and decreases upon evacuation. In analogy to the CH4 adsorption,
we tentatively assign these bands to D-bonded OD moieties (–M
g–O  D–CD3) of CD4 adsorbed at different sites.
The absence of carbonite bands (Fig. 1A) indicates that carbon
monoxide interacts at 77 K only with acidic sites (Mg2+) on the sur-
face of MgO. A decrease in the integrated absorbance of infrared
bands of adsorbed methane in the presence of adsorbed CO com-
pared to that in the absence of CO (Fig. 5, black line) gives an indica-
tion of the number of Lewis acid–base pairs available for methane
adsorption. As discussed above, methane adsorbs in absence of CO
in a dihapto coordination on Mg2+–O2 acid–base pairs at edges
and in a monohapto coordination on basic O2 adsorption sites at
corners. In co-adsorption measurements, where pre-adsorbed CO
comprises a saturated overlayer, the band at 3003 cm1 becomes
less dominant (Fig. 5, black line). Clearly, this is due to the fact that
the more basic CO molecule has occupied cationic sites, leaving only
basic O2 sites (corners) for methane adsorption. As shown in Fig. 5,
also the intensity of the dCH band m4 located at 1304 cm1 is severely
diminished in the presence of an excess of CO (200 Pa, h P 1) due to
the same reason. Thus, discrimination between cationic (acid) and
anionic (basic) adsorption sites is possible by co-adsorption of CO
and CH4. By comparing the integrated area of the m4 band in both
the absence and presence of CO, the relative abundance of acid–base
pair sites (edges) in the different MgO catalysts can be analyzed
(Fig. 7). The height of the green bars in Fig. 7 is a measure of the total
number of adsorption sites of methane (dihapto adsorption at
Mg2+–O2 acid–base pair sites at edges plus monohapto adsorption
at basic O2 sites (corners)). The blue bars indicate the number of
the basic O2 adsorption sites at corners only. The numbers pre-
sented on top of the green bars indicate the relative content of
acid–base pair sites (edges) in percentage. From these numbers, it
becomes clear that the acid–base pairs at the edges are the predom-
inant adsorption sites for all MgO preparations. The relative abun-
dance of edges versus corners decreases in the following order:
S-MgO  C-MgO > SG-MgO > MW-MgO > HT-MgO.
3.1.2. Used catalysts
In order to determine changes occurring at the catalyst surface
during OCM, we applied the methodology previously established
for characterizing fresh catalysts to catalysts after several hundred
hours time on stream (TOS) in the OCM reaction.
3.1.2.1. CO adsorption. Fig. 8 exemplarily shows a comparison of
infrared spectra of CO adsorbed on C-MgO before and after 300 h
TOS in OCM at 1073 K. Both spectra have been recorded at a CO
coverage h = 0.08. The simplicity of the spectrum of CO adsorbed
on used C-MgO is striking and indicates that the catalyst surface
was signiﬁcantly modiﬁed under OCM reaction conditions. The
Fig. 6. (A) Adsorption of 100 Pa CD4 at T = 77 K at the surface of C-MgO
dehydroxylated at 1073 K. (B) Enlarged representation of the spectra in the range
of O–D stretching vibrations. Black line: adsorption of 100 Pa CD4, red line: after
evacuation up to 5  104 Pa. (For interpretation of the references to color in this
ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
6
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
mono-atomic steps (2146 cm1) are practically missing. Features
located at 2157 and 2164 cm1 assigned to CO adsorbed on terrace
and edge sites, respectively, are present, but signiﬁcantly attenu-
ated due to the reduction of the speciﬁc surface area from
19 m2/g in the fresh catalyst to 8 m2/g in the spent one. The most
intense feature is observed at 2169 cm1, which corresponds to CO
bound to multi-atomic step sites (edges). Two new weak bands for
CO adsorbed at corners appear in the range between 2190 and
2210 cm1. Fig. 8 clearly demonstrates that OCM reaction condi-
tions transform MgO surfaces rich in mono-atomic step sites into
surfaces dominated by multi-atomic steps and corners.
The used catalysts generally adsorb more methane than the
fresh ones (compare the green bars in Fig. 7). The reduction of
the total speciﬁc surface area is apparently compensated by an
increase in the number of defects where methane can be adsorbed
and a decrease in the fraction of terrace sites where methane does
not adsorb. The fraction of acid–base pairs decreases drastically for
C-MgO and SG-MgO from about 90 to about 50%, but stays almost
unchanged at about 70% for MW-MgO. Fresh C-MgO and SG-MgO
catalysts
exhibit
an
almost
ideal
cubic
nanostructure
with
well-deﬁned structural defects present on their {100} surfaces
(see Fig. 1C–E in [1]). During the reaction, sintering of the particle
causes a loss of the cubic structure and the formation of a highly
defective structure, which explains the increase of corner sites,
that is, the decrease in the fraction of acid–base pairs at edges. In
the case of MW-MgO, the structure of the fresh catalyst is already
highly defective. Sintering during the OCM reaction leads to a
decrease in the surface area and an increase in the mean particle
size as determined by XRD, but the relative concentration of cor-
ners and acid–base pairs (edges) does not change.
In summary, the most striking differences between fresh and
used catalysts are (i) the disappearance of mono-atomic steps,
(ii) an increase in the fraction of O2 corners sites, and (iii) in some
cases a reduction of the relative amount of acid–base pairs (edges)
indicating that substantial changes in the nature of morphological
defects occur during catalysis.
3.2. Photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy
The properties of morphological defects in alkaline earth oxides
are of interest in terms of their catalytic properties. Differences in
the coordination number of surface ions modify their Madelung
potential and result in changes in the local acceptor–donor
(acid–base) behavior. Garrone et al. demonstrated based on the
Levine–Mark model [21] that excitation energies in the UV–Vis
range reﬂect the local coordination number (and the Madelung
potential, respectively) of surface ions of alkaline earth oxides
[22]. In other words, the presence of morphological defects on
the surface of alkaline earth oxides is responsible for the presence
of intrinsic discrete energy levels within the band gap, that is, local
acceptor–donor pairs, which can be probed by UV light. Hence,
MgO was intensively investigated by diffuse reﬂectance spec-
troscopy. General consensus has been reached concerning the
assignment of the absorption bands to the corresponding struc-
tural defects [22]. The UV–Vis spectrum of C-MgO reveals typical
bands at 218 nm (5.69 eV) and 266 nm (4.66 eV) that are assigned
to transitions associated with 4-fold- and 3-fold-coordinated
oxygen atoms at edges and corners, respectively (Fig. S2). Light
emission has also been observed for MgO powders in the UV and
blue visible range after excitation with photons [23] or via electron
injection
from
a
scanning
tunneling
microscope
tip
[24].
Photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy is, therefore, complementar-
ily used to sensitively probe defects and low-coordinated edge or
corner sites (structural defects) [25]. However, the interpretation
of the emission spectra is not straightforward since several recom-
bination and energy transfer phenomena may occur after the exci-
tation [6,25,26]. The emission spectra depend on the energy of the
light used for excitation. Generally, sets of excitation–emission
(kexc, kem) wavelengths are provided in the literature. These
couples are identiﬁed experimentally by recording emission spectra
(recording the spectrum of the emitted light at a ﬁxed excitation
wavelength) and excitation spectra (changing the excitation wave-
length and recording the emission at a ﬁxed wavelength). In order
to gain an improved spectral resolution and to achieve a clear
determination of the excitation–emission sets, 2D photolumines-
cence (2D PL) spectroscopy was performed in the present study.
Fig. 9 presents the 2D PL patterns of fresh (A) and used (B)
C-MgO recorded after annealing at 1073 K in vacuum for 6 h. The
conjugated excitation–emission (kexc–kem) wavelengths are sum-
marized in Table 1 and compared with the results of a theoretical
study [6]. The patterns of S- and SG-MgO before and after catalysis
are shown in the Supporting information (Figs. S3–S6).
Generally, ﬁve different species have been identiﬁed previously
by
one-dimensional
PL
spectroscopy
at
the
surface
of
Fig. 7. Integrated areas of the m4 mode of adsorbed CH4 (peq = 100 Pa) (green bars),
and of adsorbed CH4 (peq = 100 Pa) after the surface has been pre-saturated with CO
(peq = 200 Pa, i.e., h = 1), (blue bars) at T = 77 K on fresh and used MgO. The stars
indicate that the catalyst has been used in oxidative coupling of methane under the
following reaction conditions: CH4/O2/N2 = 3/1/1, W/F = 0.15 g s ml1, T = 1073 K,
TOS = 300 h. The numbers presented on top of the green bars indicate the relative
content of acid–base pair sites (edges) in percentage. (For interpretation of the
references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of
this article.)
Fig. 8. Spectra of CO adsorbed at T = 77 K at h = 0.08 on C-MgO after calcination (red
line) and after application in oxidative coupling of methane (black line) under the
following reaction conditions: CH4/O2/N2 = 3/1/1, W/F = 0.15 g s ml1, T = 1073 K,
TOS = 300 h. (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the
reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
7
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
dehydroxylated
MgO
powders
and
assigned
based
on
time-dependent DFT calculations [6]. Fourfold-coordinated oxygen
anions (O2
4c ) at edges give rise to an excitation–emission couple at
(240, 380) nm. Two different species, namely 3-fold-coordinated
oxygen anions (O2
3c ) at corners, and O2
3c at kinks (corners are the
crossing points between three extended edges, whereas a kink
comprises at least one short edge, e.g., a kink is a corner at a
mono-atomic step) together with O2
4c close to corners and kinks
are characterized by the same excitation–emission wavelengths at
(280, 470) nm. The latter two species are distinguishable by different
lifetimes. O2
3c at corners together with O2
4c close to Mg2+
3c kinks are
supposed to be responsible for an excitation–emission couple at
Fig. 9. 2D photoluminescence patterns of fresh (A) and used (B) C-MgO recorded at room temperature in vacuum (5  104 Pa), and normalized with respect to the intensity.
Excitation–emission couples are indicated by arrows.
Table 1
Excitation–emission couples experimentally observed for fresh and used C-MgO in comparison with the calculated components of excitation energy maxima [6].
Experiment (this work)
Theory [6]
General assignment involving
various local conﬁgurations
kexc (nm)
kem (nm)
Main components of calculated
excitation bands (nm)
Fresh
Used
Fresh
Used
209
380
208
O2
5c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c (V)
Valleys (V) and terraces (T)
213
375
217
O2
4,5,6c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c (V)
217
218
375
380
212
O2
6c ? Mg2+
6c (T)
222
375
221
O2
5c ? Mg2+
6c (T)
227
375
231
O2
4c ? Mg2+
3c, closer Mg2+
5c
Edges including mono-atomic
(S1) and higher steps
232
405
227
O2
4c ? Mg2+
3c, closer Mg2+
5c
240
375
234
O2
4c ? Mg2+
5,6c
245
375
229
O2
4,5c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c
250
250
383
462
234
O2
4,5c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c
248
O2
4c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c
228
O2
4,5,6c ? Mg2+
6c
S1
237
O2
4c ? Mg2+
6c
S1
245
O2
4c ? Mg2+
6c
S1
253
O2
4c ? Mg2+
6c
S1
250
250
383
462
252
O2
4c ? Mg2+
3,5c
Corners
260
260
400
420/470
256
O2
4c ? Mg2+
3,5c
267
430
261
O2
4c ? Mg2+
3,5c
255
O2
3,4c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c
267
O2
3,4c ? Mg2+
4,5,6c
8
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
(320, 530) nm. A couple at (350, 605) nm is attributed to O2
3c at
kinks.
Our experimental results are only in part compatible with the
literature showing a single agreement in terms of the excitation–
emission set at (240, 380) nm [6]. The 2D PL patterns of fresh
C-MgO reveal that for six different excitations in the range
between 213 and 245 nm, light is emitted exclusively at 375 nm
irrespective of the energy of excitation. In addition, couples at
(260, 400), and (267, 430) nm are observed (Fig. 9A, Table 1).
After extended time on stream in the OCM reaction, some
features observed for the fresh catalyst disappear and some new
features appear at higher emission wavelengths (Fig. 9B, Table 1).
The two most intense couples for fresh MgO at (213, 375) nm and
(222, 375) nm vanish almost entirely. The couples at (240, 375)
nm and (245, 375) nm disappear completely. New couples at (250,
462) nm and (260, 465) nm appear, which have not been reported
before.
The observed excitation bands are in good agreement with the
IR spectroscopic results (Fig. 8) and theoretical calculations by
Chizallet et al. (Table 1) [6]. The fresh MgO surface exhibits mainly
terraces that contain localized morphological defects. Sixfold- and
ﬁvefold-coordinated oxygen anions at terraces are excited at 213
and 222 nm, respectively, and emit light at 375 nm (Fig. 9A,
Table 1). The corresponding species are extinguished by using
the catalyst in the OCM reaction. Due to sintering, the catalyst sur-
face becomes highly defective and exhibits almost no wide terraces
anymore. At the same time, excitation bands assigned to valleys
and edges at 209, 218, and 232 nm, respectively, become more
intense (Fig. 9B). In accordance with the IR spectroscopy (Fig. 8),
the features at 240 and 245 nm observed only in the fresh catalyst,
but not in the used one, are assigned to mono-atomic steps that
disappear under OCM conditions. The weak features at 260 nm in
the fresh catalyst, and at 250 nm in used C-MgO, are attributed
to corners and kinks, respectively, according to the theoretical
calculations (Table 1) [6]. Charge transfer from the edges near
the corners can occur [5–7], which explains the slightly higher
emission wavelength at 400 nm.
The 2D PL patterns of S-MgO and SG-MgO (Figs. S3–S6) reﬂect
the morphological differences between the different MgO cata-
lysts. Features at (216, 378) nm and (220, 378) nm due to terrace
sites are dominant in the patterns of S-MgO in accordance with
the almost ideal cubic morphology of the catalyst particles. The
patterns of SG-MgO are more complex, and signals at (246, 383)
nm,
and
(265,
407)
nm
that
indicate
the
presence
of
mono-atomic steps and corners, respectively, appear more promi-
nent due to the pronounced surface texturing of SG-MgO in agree-
ment with the IR spectroscopic results (Fig. 3) and electron
microscopy [1].
As aforementioned, the 2D PL spectra of nanostructured MgO
exhibit several different excitation peaks, which are associated
with the same emission energy at approximately 375 nm. This
peculiarity is tentatively attributed to charge transfer phenomena
based on structural considerations. Fresh C-MgO is terminated
mainly by non-polar {100} planes. Edges, corners, kinks, and other
topological forms at the {100} surface of C-MgO can be regarded as
localized structural defects. Since the neighborhood of all these
defects is similar, charge transfer from different exited states into
the same excited state, which is provided by the surrounding area
of the defects, and from which the light is emitted, could occur.
Accordingly, although different energy is required to excite the
diverse structural defects (depending on their coordination num-
ber and conﬁguration), the emitted light is of the same energy
(375 nm) for most of them.
After several hundreds hours under OCM reaction condition, the
MgO surface becomes highly defective and exposes higher index
planes; thus, the electric dipole moment of the surface changes
considerably, and in this case, the relaxation process of excited
ion pairs changes too. An increase in the emission wavelength
can be observed that goes along with the supposed increase in
the polarity of the planes. The species on the surface of the used
catalyst that absorb at about 230 nm emit light at 405 nm, which
corresponds to a shift of 0.25 eV with respect to the band at
375 nm for the fresh catalyst. This shift could be explained by
the reconstruction of {100} planes into {110} planes under the
reaction condition of OCM. Similarly, the shift of the emission for
the excitation band at 250 nm from 375 to 462 nm (D = 0.6 eV)
can be explained by transformation of {100} planes into {111}
planes. The differences in the termination of differently prepared
magnesium oxides C-MgO, S-MgO, and SG-MgO are, accordingly,
also sensitively reﬂected in differing excitation–emission patterns
(Figs. S3–S6).
In summary, the energy needed to excite an electronic transi-
tion in a species that belongs to a structural defect at the surface
of MgO depends on the intrinsic electronic properties of this spe-
cies, that is, on the coordination number and the local topology
[6]. Photoluminescence, that is, the energy of the emitted light,
however, seems to probe sensitively the dipolar moment of the
microfacets where the corresponding defect is located. PL spec-
troscopy of fresh and used MgO catalysts documents, therefore,
impressively the reconstruction of the MgO surface under OCM
conditions.
3.3. EPR spectroscopy
The activation of methane or oxygen can lead to the formation
of paramagnetic species such as CH3
 or O2
 radicals, which can be
probed by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy.
Addition of molecular oxygen at room temperature after activa-
tion of C-MgO at 1023 K in vacuum gives no signal in the EPR spec-
trum (Fig. 10a). However, upon simultaneous dosing of methane
and oxygen at room temperature, new signals in the spectrum
can be observed (Fig. 10b). The obtained spectrum can be described
best by anisotropic g tensors that can be assigned to superoxide
species [27]. The superoxide O2
 is characterized by an orthorhom-
bic symmetry with three principal g values gxx, gyy, and gzz with the
z
direction
being
that
of
the
O2

intermolecular
axis.
The
orthorhombic symmetry is due to the removal of the degeneracy
between the two p⁄ oxygen orbitals [28]. In the gzz region, three
species are observed. The gzz value is very sensitive to the electro-
static ﬁeld of the surrounding. Giamello et al. [29] found a linear
correlation between the Madelung potential of the adsorbing
Fig. 10. C.W. X-band EPR spectra of C-MgO after evacuation at 1023 K in vacuum
followed by (a) adsorption of 5  103 Pa O2 at room temperature, and subsequent
evacuation to a pressure of about 1  104 Pa, and (b) co-adsorption of 9  103 Pa CH4
and 2  103 Pa O2 at room temperature and subsequent evacuation to 1  104 Pa.
The spectra were recorded at 77 K.
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
9
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
cation and the gzz value of the superoxide. The high gzz value at
2.092 (denoted by gzz(A)) and the lower gzz value at 2.074 (gzz(B))
are generally assigned to superoxide formed at corners and
mono-atomic steps, respectively [29]. The gzz signal at 2.085 was
also measured by Murphy et al., but was not assigned to any mor-
phological site [30]. The four well-deﬁned resonance lines in the gxx
and gyy region are due to hyperﬁne coupling caused by the interac-
tion of the superoxide ion with a proton in close vicinity, and their
hyperﬁne constants Axx (0.56 mT) and Ayy (0.18 mT) are in agree-
ment with the literature values for superoxides formed on MgO
upon simultaneous dosing of O2 and H2 at room temperature
[27]. The formation of superoxide species may occur in an electron
transfer reaction by dissociation of the polarized, and, therefore,
slightly C–H acidic adsorbed methane molecule under the ﬁnal for-
mation of a proton (or a hydroxy group with a basic lattice oxygen
atom), a methyl radical, and the superoxide upon electron transfer
from the splitted methane molecule to adsorbed molecular oxygen
[27]. According to Diwald et al., superoxide species formed by
charge transfer between hydrogen and molecular oxygen on MgO
are located either on mono-atomic steps or on oxygen vacancies
situated at corners [31]. EPR signatures of methyl radicals were
not found in our spectra, probably due to the fast desorption of
these products already at room temperature.
Paganini et al. reported about heterolytic C–H bond dissociation
of saturated hydrocarbons including methane on the dehydroxy-
lated CaO surface at room temperature, but on MgO, dissociation
was not observed [32]. The formed CH3
 carbanion is able to trans-
fer an electron either to co-adsorbed oxygen or to the CaO surface
if irradiated by UV–Vis light, thus forming superoxide O2
 species or
Fs(H)+ color centers, respectively, and a methyl radical. In our
experiments, no color centers were formed when MgO was irradi-
ated in the presence of adsorbed CH4. This result is in agreement
with the IR spectroscopic experiments of CH4 adsorption on MgO
that reveal a signiﬁcant polarization of the C–H bonds in methane,
but no dissociation. Consequently, no electron transfer occurs at
the surface of MgO in absence of oxygen. Instead, the adsorption
of CH4 on MgO that contains structural defects with proper conﬁg-
uration weakens the C–H bond, which allows the electrophilic
attack by an oxygen molecule.
In summary, complementary EPR and FTIR measurements indi-
cate that the MgO surface polarizes the C–H bond in the adsorbed
methane molecule (forming H3C–H  O–Mg), but that molecular
oxygen is needed to ﬁnally break the bond via electron transfer
from the polarized CH4 molecule to O2. It is remarkable that this
process occurs already at room temperature.
4. Discussion
4.1. Structural changes of the MgO surface during the OCM reaction
The surface of MgO calcined at high temperature exhibits
‘‘localized’’ defects at the {100} surface that contain coordinatively
unsaturated sites (cus). Such structural defects comprise edges (at
steps of different height) and corners. Their total concentration and
relative abundance depend on the synthesis method. Differences in
the synthesis technique are reﬂected in different initial activities
and variations in the rate of catalyst deactivation [1] indicating
that structural defects might be related to the catalytic activity of
MgO in OCM. The strong deactivation of the catalyst under OCM
conditions
involves
drastic
changes
in
the
primary
particle
morphology as observed by electron microscopy and spectroscopic
techniques (Figs. 8 and 9, and S3–S6) [1]. There is a clear experi-
mental evidence for the disappearance of the {100} cubic structure
and the formation of high index crystal planes, like {110} or {111},
or microfaceted structures due to sintering of the primary MgO
particles. The sintering is caused by the reaction of the unavoidable
reaction product water with the catalyst surface and leads to a
dynamic change in the nature of the active sites, and, conse-
quently, in the reaction mechanism with time on stream. The
results of photoluminescence spectroscopy are in agreement with
surface reconstructions under reaction conditions. The redshift
(by 0.6 eV) in the emission signal assigned to corners after use of
C-MgO indicates that the formation of polar, for example, {111}
surfaces that exhibit an increased surface dipole moment in com-
parison with the {100} surface, occurs (Fig. 9). Water formed in
the OCM reaction may stabilize polar surfaces via the formation
of Mg–OH groups [33]. Since dehydroxylation of MgO is not yet
complete at reaction temperature, the MgO surface in steady state
is at least partially covered by hydroxy groups. The OH groups
formed under reaction conditions can also be regarded as impurity
or dopant changing the Lewis acid–base properties of the catalyst
surface. Furthermore, the presence of {111} higher index planes
on the surface of used C-MgO is supported by IR spectroscopy.
The number of corners determined by co-adsorption of CO and
CH4 increases by using the material as catalyst (Fig. 7, blue bars).
In addition, the results of photoluminescence spectroscopy can
be interpreted in terms of the formation of microfaceted surfaces.
The {110} surface can be regarded as an ‘‘inﬁnite’’ array of
mono-atomic steps in the h110i direction of the crystal. If present
on the surface of used MgO catalysts, the {110} surface should
cause a rise of intensity of the signals at 240 and 245 nm in the
excitation spectra. However, by using C-MgO in OCM, extinction
of these signals and an increase in the signals due to polyatomic
steps and valleys are observed suggesting the formation of
micro-facets. The formation of micro-faceted surfaces is driven
by thermodynamics. Based on the Born model of solids, de
Leeuw et al. calculated that micro-faceted {110} surfaces have a
lower surface energy than the planar {110} surface [33].
The drastic changes of the catalyst surface with time on stream
imply changes in the reaction mechanism. In the following, the cat-
alytic properties of MgO in OCM will be discussed in two parts
dealing at ﬁrst with the fresh MgO surface (Section 4.2) and sec-
ondly
with
the
MgO
surface
under
steady-state
conditions
(Section 4.3).
4.2. Activation of methane on the fresh dehydroxylated MgO surface at
t = 0
In the following, we combine the spectroscopic results reported
above with kinetic data summarized in [1] to develop a model for
methane activation at the surface of dehydroxylated MgO that
shows very high activity far from steady-state operation. The spec-
troscopic characterization of the fresh catalyst surface describes a
situation, which comes across the reactants at the very beginning
of the reaction (at t = 0). The magnesium oxides involved in the
present study are comparatively rich in edges and corners present
on the {100} surface that have been semi-quantitatively deter-
mined by FTIR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO and methane. The
edges expose Mg2+–O2 acid–base pairs, which are considered as
dihapto adsorption sites for methane (Scheme 1), while on corners,
the methane molecule is adsorbed on a single oxygen or magne-
sium ion. By plotting the rate of methane consumption and the rate
of C2+ formation at t = 0 as a function of the relative abundance of
edges related to the total number of adsorption sites (edges plus
corners) on the surface of the freshly pretreated catalysts, a clear
correlation is observed showing the relevance of edges (Lewis
acid–base pairs) for selective activation of methane on MgO with
the exception of S-MgO (Fig. 11). In the latter catalyst that was pre-
pared by combustion of magnesium, the abundance of steps is very
low and the edges basically represent the edges of the regular
cubic particles. Here, the peculiar situation happens that the
10
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
relative amount of edges is very high in comparison with the
amount of corners, but the total amount of edges, which belong
to steps, is very low due to the quite regular surface structure of
the S-MgO particles. Mono-atomic steps do practically not exist
on the surface of S-MgO. Our experimental ﬁndings are in good
agreement with the predictions by theory. In a series of recent the-
oretical papers, Metiu et al. emphasized the importance of strong
Lewis acid–base pairs in the activation of methane through hetero-
lytic C–H bond dissociation and stabilization of the products on the
surface of basic oxides [34–36].
When the rate of methane consumption is plotted as a function
of the abundance of mono-atomic steps, a clear trend is observed
indicating that steps with a height that comprises one Mg–O dis-
tance play an important role in the activation of methane
(Fig. 12). The underlying analysis of the corresponding FTIR spectra
is shown in Figs. S7–S12 and Table S1. Interestingly, Trionfetti et al.
reported in agreement with our observations that the presence of
step sites in MgO increases the number of active centers that are
able to activate propane. However, the reaction occurs in an unse-
lective way and leads to the formation of carbon oxides [15]. In cal-
culations that model the surface of Na-doped CaO, Sun et al. [36]
have shown that the dissociation energy of the C–H bonds is low-
ered when methane adsorption takes place on mono-atomic steps
rather than on any other defect that contains lower coordinated
ions.
Taking into account that (i) the oxygen partial pressure has a
signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the reaction rate [1], and (ii) Lewis acid–
base pairs on edges of mono-atomic steps are related to methane
activation, a model for methane activation on the surface of pure,
nanostructured,
and
dehydroxylated
MgO
is
proposed.
The
catalytic cycle is presented in Scheme 2. Thus, gas-phase methane
is adsorbed in a dihapto conﬁguration on Lewis acid–base pairs
located on mono-atomic steps on the surface of MgO (Steps a
and b in Scheme 2). Co-adsorption of carbon monoxide and
methane reveals that CH4 adsorbs preferentially in dihapto and
to a lesser extent in monohapto conﬁguration (Fig. 7, Scheme 1).
In the second step, a C–H bond of the methane molecule is polar-
ized as observed by IR spectroscopy of adsorbed CH4 and CD4 on
MgO (Figs. 5 and 6). The adsorbed methane molecule bends toward
the terrace at the bottom of the mono-atomic step, which allows
the interaction of H atoms of methane with basic lattice oxygen
resulting in C–H bond elongation, that is, strong polarization of
C–H bonds (Step c in Scheme 2). The interaction of hydrogen atoms
between adsorbed methane and oxygen atoms at the terrace is
reﬂected in the appearance of bands due to O–H (or O–D) stretch-
ing vibrations after adsorption of (deuterated) methane at 77 K
(Figs. 5 and 6). The underlying interaction is week, since the
adsorption at 77 K is reversible and no heterolytic dissociation
was observed by adsorption of methane on MgO alone at this
low temperature. This is in contrast to the properties of the stron-
ger base CaO. At the surface of calcium oxide, methane dissociates
heterolytically already at room temperature [37]. The dissociation
of the C–H bond on MgO is, however, possible when molecular
oxygen approaches and weakly adsorbs at the MgO surface near
the adsorbed methane molecule (Step d in Scheme 2). The C–H
bond is broken in a concerted mechanism forming simultaneously
a methyl radical and a superoxide O2
 species (Step e in Scheme 2).
Evidently, the oxygen molecule is able to accept an electron from
the adsorbed methane molecule. The methyl radical formed is
not stable at the surface of MgO and is released to the gas phase.
Alternatively (or in parallel), a surface mediated coupling of two
simultaneously activated methane molecules adsorbed at neigh-
boring sites and the subsequent formation of the C2 product ethane
and hydrogen peroxide may happen without desorption of methyl
radicals [1]. The latter option may prevail at the high reaction tem-
perature, whereas the occurrence of O2
 species after contact of
C-MgO with a reaction mixture of methane and oxygen has been
conﬁrmed by EPR spectroscopy already at room temperature
(Fig. 10). Hyperﬁne coupling of the superoxide anion with a proton
in close proximity suggests heterolytic C–H bond dissociation on
mono-atomic steps of MgO at room temperature. This is in agree-
ment with DFT calculations [38]. The active site is regenerated by
desorption of the perhydroxyl radical HO2
 , which may initiate fur-
ther homogeneous reactions by, for example, hydrogen abstraction
from methane molecules in the gas phase [39]. The increasing
CO2/CO ratio observed with increasing methane conversion [1]
could be attributed to the formation of HO2
 radicals in the gas
phase according to reaction (1). Reaction (1) would also explain
the strong decrease in the CO2/CO ratio with time on stream that
goes along with the fast disappearance of mono-atomic steps, on
which the mechanism proposed in Scheme 2 is predominant.
CO þ HO
2 ! CO2 þ OH
ð1Þ
The mechanistic concept proposed in Scheme 2 provides an
explanation for the high reaction temperatures that are required.
The high temperature is, apparently, in conﬂict with the observa-
tion that methane can be activated already at room temperature
on the surface of MgO (Figs. 5, 6 and 10). Perhydroxyl radicals
are precursors for the formation of hydroxy groups and water,
which may lead to the deactivation of MgO by sintering. Once
the surface is covered with adsorbed hydroxy groups, methane
Fig. 11. Rate of methane consumption and C2+ formation at t = 0 measured at
T = 1023 K, applying a feed composition of CH4/O2/N2 = 3/1/1, and a contact time of
0.033 g s ml1 as a function of the relative amount of acid–base pairs (edges) on the
surface of the catalysts.
Fig. 12. Rate of methane consumption and C2+ formation at t = 0 measured at
T = 1023 K, applying a feed composition of CH4/O2/N2 = 3/1/1, and a contact time of
0.033 g s ml1 plotted versus the integrated area of the CO adsorption peak at
2146 cm1 that indicates the abundance of mono-atomic steps.
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
11
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
cannot adsorb anymore, unless high reaction temperatures are
applied to assure a partially dehydroxylated surface under reaction
conditions. In addition, Ito et al. reported that methyl radicals from
the gas phase could react with surface oxygen under the formation
of strongly bonded methoxide species [40] according to Eq. (2).
Lunsford et al. conﬁrmed that the sticking coefﬁcient of methyl
radicals on metal oxide surfaces drastically increase in the pres-
ence of oxygen in the gas phase due to the formation of methoxide
ions according to Eq. (3) [41]. Methoxide species can be trans-
formed into carbonates at room temperature and decompose only
at high temperature (T > 700 K) to produce either syngas or carbon
dioxide and water [40]. Eq. (3) is, therefore, one possible route to
total oxidation during the OCM reaction.
CH
3 þ O2 ! CH3O þ e
ð2Þ
CH
3 þ O2 þ O2
s
! CH3O
s þ O
2s !!! COx
ð3Þ
4.3. Active sites under steady-state conditions
Mono-atomic step edges disappear in the used catalysts (Figs. 8
and 9). The decrease in speciﬁc surface area, the increase in MgO
domain size, as well as the degradation of the cubic {100} struc-
ture evidence sintering processes of the primary MgO particles
during time on stream under conditions of the OCM reaction [1].
Water vapor at reaction temperature induced the stabilization
of high index plane surface terminations as shown by 2D photolu-
minescence spectroscopy (Fig. 9). Theoretical calculations show
that MgO experiences surface reconstruction at high water cover-
age forming thermodynamically stable hydroxylated {111} sur-
faces [33,42]. Water is preferentially adsorbed on mono-atomic
steps or {310} like planes [33,43]. In this respect, water vapor acts
as a catalyst poison destroying the highly active mono-atomic
steps identiﬁed on the surface of the freshly dehydroxylated MgO
catalysts. Under reaction conditions of the oxidative coupling of
methane, pure MgO is transformed into a dynamic phase mixture
of MgO and Mg(OH)2. By electron microscopy, the formation of
more rounded particles, which are terminated by higher index
planes, is observed for all MgO catalysts [1]. The closely related
particle morphology of the used catalysts is in agreement with
similar methane conversions in steady state over the differently
prepared magnesium oxides. Consequently, the nature of the
actives sites and, accordingly, the reaction mechanism change with
time on stream.
The interaction of water vapor with MgO is the driving force for
the formation of point defects either on the surface or in the bulk of
the oxide. Point defects, involving hydroxy groups adjacent to a
magnesium vacancy (VOH-like centers or ðV00
MgOHÞ
0-equivalent
centers), are presumably important for the catalytic activity of
MgO in the stationary state, since they are the precursors for the
formation of O sites (positive holes bound to an oxygen lattice
O2 ion (O2 þ h ¼ O)), which, perhaps, are present as triangular
O arrays of the {111} planes [44]. The O centers have been taken
into account as sites for the activation of small alkane molecules or
hydrogen [45,46]. In the same way, the incorporation of excess
oxygen into MgO leads to the formation of cation vacancies and
O anions ðMg2þO2 þ @O2 ¼ Mg2þO2
1@ðOÞ2@Þ) [47]. The formation
of Mg vacancies and positive holes were experimentally conﬁrmed
by conductivity measurements of MgO in the presence of oxygen at
high temperature [48,49]. However, the addition of carbon dioxide
to the OCM feed does not affect the reactivity at steady state. CO2 is
known to react strongly with O species to form carbonate species.
In the case of Li-doped MgO, CO2 is considered as a poison for the
catalyst [50,51]. Again, the high reaction temperatures may be
responsible for the maintenance of activity due to the decomposi-
tion of carbonates.
Hence, the situation at steady state is much more complicated
than on fresh MgO catalysts. The cubic {100} structure and
mono-atomic steps have vanished, and the surface of the catalyst
exhibits higher index planes or micro-facets. At the same time, dif-
ferent species are adsorbed on the catalysts surface changing its
reactivity and electronic properties. For instance, adsorbed protons
on lattice oxygen change the basicity of the MgO surface as empha-
sized by Metiu et al. [34,35]. Activated oxygen (like superoxide)
adsorbed on the surface may also be reactive in the OCM reaction.
At the same time, the change in the MgO morphology due to water
vapor induces the formation of point defects that can also change
the reactivity.
It appears that at steady state the OCM reaction over MgO is less
structure sensitive than on fresh MgO catalysts, explaining the
Scheme 2. Proposed mechanism of methane activation on fresh dehydroxylated MgO.
12
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
relative similar activity of the ﬁve differently prepared pure MgO
catalysts despite differences in the surface structure (Figs. 9, S4
and S6) [1]. The surfaces of the higher index planes offer strong
adsorption sites for methane allowing perhaps different mecha-
nisms of C–H bond polarization. Based on the current experimental
results, however, only speculations are possible. A deeper under-
standing of the situation under steady-state conditions requires
further investigations.
5. Conclusions
Oxidative coupling of methane on the surface of magnesium
oxide is a dynamic and structure-sensitive process. With time on
stream, the nature of active sites changes and different reaction
pathways that differ in the mode of activating methane and oxygen
may happen in parallel.
On the freshly activated, nanostructured, and dehydroxylated
magnesium oxide surface, methane coupling occurs through inter-
molecular charge transfer between methane adsorbed on acid–
base pairs located at edges of mono-atomic steps and weakly
adsorbed oxygen approaching from the gas phase. Mono-atomic
step edges offer an optimal conﬁguration for the adsorption of
methane and the polarization of its C–H bonds. The mechanism
is in accordance with the semi-quantitative correlation between
active site concentration determined by FTIR spectroscopy and
reaction rate and supported by the detection of O2
 species by
EPR spectroscopy, as well as the strong relation between methane
consumption rate and oxygen partial pressure observed in the
kinetic study [1]. The outcome of the present study implies a
design concept of highly active sites for methane activation.
However, the corresponding sites are not stable, since the mecha-
nism is self-inhibited by formation of the by-product water and the
destruction of the active sites, which are preferentially attacked by
water vapor at the high reaction temperatures.
The MgO particles sinter due to the presence of water and the
high temperature. The sintering process occurs through the forma-
tion of magnesium vacancies. On the one hand, once the surface
energy of the MgO is minimized under OCM reaction condition
in the steady state, the formation of magnesium vacancies due to
water incorporation is supposed to be marginal since the OCM feed
becomes increasingly oxidizing. On the other hand, the high con-
centration of oxygen may lead to the formation of V centers due
to the excess of oxygen incorporation and formation of {111}
micro-facets. Systematic studies of the deactivation and sintering
process are, however, required to deliver more detailed insight into
the activation of methane and oxygen and the nature of the active
sites under steady-state conditions.
Since water is an unavoidable reaction product, the stabilization
of mono-atomic steps is not trivial. Therefore, alternative strategies
should also be considered in the design of stable catalysts for OCM.
Recently, the formation of strongly bound O2
 species, the precur-
sors
of
dissociatively
adsorbed
O2,
has
been
observed
on
single-crystal CaO ﬁlms doped with Mo2+ ions [52]. Such an
electronic doping does not require any surface structural defects.
The concept, which is also applicable to powder catalysts [52,53],
provides another promising approach to active and stable OCM
catalysts.
Acknowledgments
This work was conducted in the framework of the COE ‘‘UniCat’’
(www.unicat.tu-berlin.de) of the German Science Foundation. The
authors thank Jutta Kröhnert for her help with the conduction of IR
experiments.
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Supplementary data associated with this article can be found, in
the online version, at http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008.
References
[1] P. Schwach, W. Frandsen, M.G. Willinger, R. Schlögl, A. Trunschke, J. Catal.
(2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.007.
[2] G. Spoto, E.N. Gribov, G. Ricchiardi, A. Damin, D. Scarano, S. Bordiga, C.
Lamberti, A. Zecchina, Prog. Surf. Sci. 76 (2004) 71–146.
[3] A.M. Ferrari, S. Huber, H. Knozinger, K.M. Neyman, N. Rosch, J. Phys. Chem. B
102 (1998) 4548–4555.
[4] M. Anpo, M. Che, Applications of photoluminescence techniques to the
characterization of solid surfaces in relation to adsorption, catalysis, and
photocatalysis, in: W.O. Haag, B.C. Gates, H. Knozinger (Eds.), Advances in
Catalysis, vol. 44, 1999, pp. 119–257.
[5] C. Chizallet, G. Costentin, J.-M. Krafft, H. Lauron-Pernot, M. Che, Kinetic Model
of Energy Transfer Processes Between Low-Coordinated Ions on MgO by
Photoluminescence Decay Measurements, 2006, pp. 904–911.
[6] C. Chizallet, G. Costentin, H. Lauron-Pernott, J.-M. Krafft, M. Che, F. Delbecq, P.
Sautet, J. Phys. Chem. C 112 (2008) 16629–16637.
[7] R. Hacquart, J.-M. Krafft, G. Costentin, J. Jupille, Surf. Sci. 595 (2005) 172–182.
[8] S. Stoll, A. Schweiger, J. Magn. Reson. 178 (2006) 42–55.
[9] K.I. Hadjiivanov, G.N. Vayssilov, Characterization of oxide surfaces and zeolites
by carbon monoxide as an IR probe molecule, Advances in Catalysis, vol. 47,
Academic Press Inc, San Diego, 2002, pp. 307–511.
[10] N.S. Hush, M.L. Williams, J. Mol. Spectrosc. 50 (1974) 349–368.
[11] G. Pacchioni, G. Cogliandro, P.S. Bagus, Int. J. Quantum Chem. 42 (1992) 1115–
1139.
[12] M.A. Babaeva, D.S. Bystrov, A.Y. Kovalgin, A.A. Tsyganenko, J. Catal. 123 (1990)
396–416.
[13] E. Guglielminotti, S. Coluccia, E. Garrone, L. Cerruti, A. Zecchina, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. 1: Phys. Chem. Condensed Phases 75 (1979) 96–108.
[14] R. Soave, G. Pacchioni, Chem. Phys. Lett. 320 (2000) 345–351.
[15] C. Trionfetti, I.V. Babich, K. Seshan, L. Lefferts, Langmuir 24 (2008) 8220–8228.
[16] U. Zavyalova, G. Weinberg, W. Frandsen, F. Girgsdies, T. Risse, K.P. Dinse, R.
Schloegl, R. Horn, ChemCatChem 3 (2011) 1779–1788.
[17] A.M. Ferrari, S. Huber, H. Knözinger, K.M. Neyman, N. Rösch, J. Phys. Chem. B
102 (1998) 4548–4555.
[18] C. Li, G. Li, Q. Xin, J. Phys. Chem. 98 (1994) 1933–1938.
[19] N. Sheppard, D.J.C. Yates, Proc. R. Soc. London A 238 (1956) 69–89.
[20] E. Knözinger, K.-H. Jacob, S. Singh, P. Hofmann, Surf. Sci. 290 (1993) 388–402.
[21] J.D. Levine, P. Mark, Phys. Rev. 144 (1966) 751.
[22] E. Garrone, A. Zecchina, F.S. Stone, Philos. Mag. B – Phys. Condensed Matter
Stat. Mech. Electron. Opt. Magn. Prop. 42 (1980) 683–703.
[23] S. Coluccia, A.M. Deane, A.J. Tench, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1: Phys. Chem.
Condensed Phases 74 (1978) 2913–2922.
[24] S. Benedetti, H.M. Benia, N. Nilius, S. Valeri, H.J. Freund, Chem. Phys. Lett. 430
(2006) 330–335.
[25] P.V. Sushko, A.L. Shluger, Surf. Sci. 421 (1999) L157–L165.
[26] S. Coluccia, A.J. Tench, R.L. Segall, J. Chem. Soc. – Faraday Trans. I (75) (1979)
1769.
[27] E. Giamello, E. Garrone, P. Ugliengo, M. Che, A.J. Tench, J. Chem. Soc. – Faraday
Trans. I (85) (1989) 3987–3994.
[28] M. Che, A.J. Tench, Adv. Catal. 32 (1983) 1–148.
[29] E. Giamello, P. Ugliengo, E. Garrone, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1: Phys.
Chem. Condensed Phases 85 (1989) 1373–1382.
[30] D.M. Murphy, R.D. Farley, I.J. Purnell, C.C. Rowlands, A.R. Yacob, M.C. Paganini,
E. Giamello, J. Phys. Chem. B 103 (1999) 1944–1953.
[31] O. Diwald, E. Knozinger, J. Phys. Chem. B 106 (2002) 3495–3502.
[32] M.C. Paganini, M. Chiesa, P. Martino, E. Giamello, E. Garrone, J. Phys. Chem. B
107 (2003) 2575–2580.
[33] N.H. de Leeuw, G.W. Watson, S.C. Parker, J. Phys. Chem. 99 (1995) 17219–
17225.
[34] Z. Hu, B. Li, X. Sun, H. Metiu, J. Phys. Chem. C 115 (2011) 3065–3074.
[35] H. Metiu, S. Chretien, Z. Hu, B. Li, X. Sun, J. Phys. Chem. C 116 (2012) 10439–
10450.
[36] X. Sun, B. Li, H. Metiu, J. Phys. Chem. C 117 (2013) 7114–7122.
[37] M.C. Paganini, M. Chiesa, P. Martino, S. Livraghi, E. Giamello, An EPR study of
the surface reactivity of CaO and a comparison with that of MgO, in: A.
Gamble, C. Colella, S. Coluccia (Eds.), Oxide Based Materials: New Sources,
Novel Phases, New Applications, 2005, pp. 441–449.
[38] K. Kwapien, J. Paier, J. Sauer, M. Geske, U. Zavyalova, R. Horn, P. Schwach, A.
Trunschke, R. Schlögl, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. (2014).
[39] M. Iwamoto, J.H. Lunsford, J. Phys. Chem. 84 (1980) 3079–3084.
[40] T. Ito, T. Watanabe, T. Tashiro, K. Toi, J. Chem. Soc. – Faraday Trans. I (85)
(1989) 2381–2395.
[41] M.T. Xu, T.H. Ballinger, J.H. Lunsford, J. Phys. Chem. 99 (1995) 14494–14499.
[42] K. Refson, R.A. Wogelius, D.G. Fraser, M.C. Payne, M.H. Lee, V. Milman, Phys.
Rev. B 52 (1995) 10823–10826.
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
13
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
[43] D. Costa, C. Chizallet, B. Ealet, J. Goniakowski, F. Finocchi, J. Chem. Phys. 125
(2006).
[44] M. Boudart, A. Delbouille, E.G. Derouane, V. Indovina, A.B. Walters, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 94 (1972) 6622–6630.
[45] K. Aika, J.H. Lunsford, J. Phys. Chem. 81 (1977) 1393–1398.
[46] D.J. Driscoll, W. Martir, J.X. Wang, J.H. Lunsford, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 107 (1985)
58–63.
[47] H. Kathrein, F. Freund, J. Nagy, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 45 (1984) 1155–1163.
[48] D.R. Sempolinski, W.D. Kingery, Ionic Conductivity and Magnesium Vacancy
Mobility in Magnesium Oxide, 1980, pp. 664–669.
[49] D.R. Sempolinski, W.D. Kingery, H.L. Tuller, Electronic Conductivity of Single
Crystalline Magnesium Oxide, 1980, pp. 669–675.
[50] E. Kondratenko, M. Baerns, Oxidative coupling of methane, in: G. Ertl, F.
Schüth, J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, Wiley-VCH,
2008, pp. 3010–3023.
[51] L. Leveles, K. Seshan, J.A. Lercher, L. Lefferts, J. Catal. 218 (2003) 296–306.
[52] Y. Cui, X. Shao, M. Baldofski, J. Sauer, N. Nilius, H.-J. Freund, Angew. Chem., Int.
Ed. 52 (2013) 11385–11387.
[53] P. Schwach, M.G. Willinger, A. Trunschke, R. Schlögl, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 52
(2013) 11381–11384.
14
P. Schwach et al. / Journal of Catalysis xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
Please cite this article in press as: P. Schwach et al., Structure sensitivity of the oxidative activation of methane over MgO model catalysts: II. Nature of
active sites and reaction mechanism, J. Catal. (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.05.008
