I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 Contents lists available at SciVerse ScienceDirect Applied Surface Science jou rn al h om epa g e:www.elsevier.com/locate/apsusc Preparation and characterization of NiZrO nanoparticles and its catalytic behavior for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation Ying Wu a,, Jing Gao a,  Yiming He b,  Tinghua Wu a,a Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Advanced Catalysis Materials, Institute of Physical Chemistry, Zhejiang Key Laboratory for Reactive Chemistry on Solid Surfaces, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua 321004, China b College of Materials Physics, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua 321004, China a  r  t i  c  l  e i n f o Article history: Received 23 October 2011 Received in revised form 15 January 2012 Accepted 20 January 2012 Available online 27 January 2012 Keywords: Nanoparticles Modified solgel method Interaction Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation a b  s  t  r  a c  t NiZrO nanoparticles with  various Zr  contents were prepared by  a modified solgel  method and characterized by  X-ray diffraction
(XRD),
scanning/high-resolution transmission electron microscope
(SEM/HRTEM),
BET  surface  area  analysis, H2 temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR),  X-ray pho- toelectron spectroscopy (XPS)  and  O2 temperature-programmed desorption (O2-TPD).  The  oxidative dehydrogenation of  ethane
(ODHE)
to  ethylene was  applied to evaluate catalytic performance of  the samples.
The  results  show  that  the  doping of  Zr  affected the  cell  parameter and  the  chemical environ- ment of  the catalysts,indicating the  existence of  strong  interaction between Ni  and  Zr.
The interaction plays an  important role  in  the  lessened reducibility and  the distribution of  adsorbed oxygen species,consequently influence their  catalytic performance.
The  best  yield  to  ethylene was  obtained over  the  10% NiZrO catalyst with 60%  ethane conversion and 66%  ethylene selectivity. 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1.
Introduction The industrial production of ethylene from ethane is by thermal pyrolysis,which is a costly process in energy [1].  Many attempts to replace this process by catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation have been carried out.
One challenge for the process is how to achieve high selectivity and yield to ethylene in the presence of oxygen at low temperature [2,3],because ethylene is more reactive than ethane and side reactions such as cracking and combustion are easier to occur.
Research on the catalysts of oxidative dehydrogena- tion of ethane
(ODHE)
usually falls into two operating temperature categories,above or below the temperature at which significant gas-phase reaction mechanisms participate [4].  High tempera- ture catalyst mainly contains alkali-metal and alkaline-earth-metal oxides supported on transition-metal oxides,rare-earth-metal oxides systems and other catalytic materials [512].
Low temper- ature catalysts usually consist of reducible transition metal oxides.
Earlier transition metals (Mo,
V)
based multi-component catalysts were mostly researched [1317].  Therein, MoVTeNb catalyst exhib- ited excellent
ODHE
performance with 75% ethylene yield at
400 C
[15].
Due to the complicated multi-component structure,how- ever,the mechanisms of the type of catalysts are difficult to be investigated.
Corresponding authors.
Fax:+86 579
2282595.
E-mail addresses:yingwu@zjnu.cn
(Y.
Wu),thwu@zjnu.cn
(T.
Wu).
NiO,as a mono-component oxide catalyst,has attracted increasing attention since NiO was regarded as a potential low- temperature catalyst for
ODHE
reaction [18,19].  In order to improve the catalytic performance of NiO,nano-NiO [20,21] and meso-NiO [22] were prepared and their catalytic activities were increased to some extent.
The selectivity to ethylene,however,is not desir- able enough.
Although the ethylene selectivity could be increased effectively when NiO was loaded on the supports with high sur- face area such as Al2O3,the reaction temperature was increased distinctly [23].
Therefore,in order to promote the catalytic perfor- mance some transition metal oxides were selected to dope into NiO,which showed remarkable effect on the catalytic behavior [2427].
Especially, NiNbO catalyst exhibited good low-temperature cat- alytic performance with 40% ethylene yield and 70% selectivity at
400 C
[27].
The function of Nb is its enhancing action on the ethy- lene selectivity by reducing the oxidizing species on the surface for the total oxidation of ethane.
These studied effectual dopants of NiO were generally transi- tion metals possessing variable valence.
As a relatively steady metal with single valance, Zr has seldom been reported to be dopant for
ODHE
reaction,although it is frequently reported to be a unique car- rier [28,29]. In this work, Zr was used to be a dopant to improve the performance of NiO catalyst for
ODHE
reaction.
A
modified solgel method was applied to prepare NiZrO nanoparticles because the preparation method could influence the catalytic performance [30].
Zr content was studied with regard to the behavior for the ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene,and the function of Zr was also discussed. 0169-4332/$
see front matter
2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.apsusc.2012.01.120
Y.
Wu  et al. / Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 4923 Fig.
1.
SEM
images of NiO (a),10% NiZrO (b),and
HRTEM
image of 10% NiZrO (c).
2.
Experiment
2.1.
Catalyst preparation
A
series of NiZrO catalysts with varying Zr contents were prepared by a modified solgel method using Ni(NO3)2·6H2O and Zr(NO3)4·5H2O.
They were dissolved in de-ionized water respec- tively and simultaneously added dropwise into stoichiometric citric acid solution under stirring to generate a completely homogeneous and transparent solution.
Then the water was evaporated with con- tinuous stirring at
70 C
until a highly viscous gel-like material was formed.
After further drying at
110 C
for 24 h,the sponge-like and brittle solid was calcined at
450 C
for 6 h in air.
The obtained sample was denoted as
X
% NiZrO
(X
means the molar ratio of Zr/(Ni + Zr),
X
= 5,10,20,40,75).
For comparison purposes,pure nickel and zirconium oxide were also prepared by the same method.
2.2.
Catalyst characterization The specific surface areas of all prepared catalysts were deter- mined by a surface area analyzer (Quantachrome, Autosorb-1) using nitrogen adsorption analysis at the liquid nitrogen tempera- ture of
196 C
with the
BET
method.
X-ray diffraction
(XRD)
patterns were collected on a Philips
PW3040/60
powder diffractometer operating at 40 kV and 40 mA using
Cu
k
radiation
( =
0.15406
nm)
and
step
scanning (0.2/min) in the 2 range of
2090.
High-resolution transmission electron microscopy
(HRTEM)
was done using a
JEM-2010F
electron microscope operated at an acceleration voltage of 200 kV.
Scanning electron microscopy
(SEM)
was done using a Hitachi
S-4800
scanning electron microscope with of 10 kV accelerating voltage.
H2 temperature-programmed reduction
(H2-TPR)
studies were carried out using a home made
TPR
apparatus.
The samples were loaded in a quartz reactor and heated to
600 C
in a 5% H2-Ar flow (25 mL/min) at a rate of 10 C/min.
H2 consumption was monitored by a thermal conductivity detector.
Water produced during the reduction was removed with 5 A  molecular sieves.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
(XPS)
studies were per- formed using a
VG
ESCALAB/Auger spectrometer to identify the oxidation states of the surfaces by means of chemical shift investigation.
The effect of charging was corrected by means of adventitious carbon (284.6 eV) referencing.
The areas of the peaks were computed by fitting the experimental spectra to Gaus- sian/Lorenztian curves after removal of the background (Shirley function).
Surface atom ratios were calculated from peak area ratios normalized by using the corresponding atomic sensitivity factors [31].
O2
temperature-programmed desorption
(O2-TPD)
experi- ments were conducted on a mass spectrometer
(MS).
The catalysts (0.1 g) were first pretreated in air for
0.5
h at
450 C
and then cooled to room temperature.
After the system was purged with a He gas flow to smooth the baseline,the sample was heated to
600 C
under He at a constant rate of 15 C/min under a gas flow rate 35 mL/min.
The reactor exit was monitored online by a quadrupole mass ana- lyzer (Balzer OmniStar 200),and the desorbed oxygen was detected by following the 32 (m/z) fragment.
The
acidity
of
samples
was
measured
by
temperature- programmed desorption of ammonia
(NH3-TPD).
The sample (0.2 g) was placed into a quartz reactor and a flow of NH3 was introduced for 30 min.
The gaseous or physisorbed NH3 was removed by
N2
(20 mL/min) at
100 C
for 1 h,then the sample was heated to
600 C
with a rate of 10 C/min.
The desorbed NH3 was monitored contin- uously by following the 15 (m/z) fragments via a mass spectrometer
(HIDEN
Analytical,
QIC-20).
2.3.
Catalytic reaction The catalytic reactions were carried out in a quartz fixed-bed vertical-flow tubular quartz reactor (i.d. = 5 mm) packed with
0.1
g catalyst and
0.18
g quartz sand were uniformly mixed and to be used.
The feed gas consisted of ethane,oxygen,and nitrogen
(C2H6/O2/N2 =
1/1/8) with a gaseous hourly space velocity
(GHSV)
of 30,000 mL/h g cat.
The reactants and products were analyzed using an on-line gas chromatography equipped with a thermal con- ductivity detector
(TCD)
attached with a Porapak
Q
column and a molecular sieve 5 A column.
3.
Results and discussion
3.1.
Catalyst morphology and composition Fig. 1(a) and (b) shows the morphologies of NiO and 10% NiZrO samples prepared using a modified solgel method.
Similar to NiO,10% NiZrO exhibits uniform and spherical nanoparticles,with a smaller average diameter of about 710 nm.
The other NiZrO samples with different Zr contents are similar in texture as it,except for the difference of nanoparticle sizes.
The variation in specific surface area of the catalysts as a function of Zr content is listed in Table
1.
For catalysts up to a Zr content of 20%,sur- face area increased with enhanced Zr content.
With the further rise in Zr content,there is a decrease in surface area.
It indicates that the appropriate mixing of Zr could restrain the growth of NiO particles.
Fig. 2 shows
XRD
patterns of NiZrO and pure NiO nanopar- ticles.
Only one phase corresponding to cubic NiO
(JCPDS
Card No. 03-065-5745) appeared in the NiZrO catalysts with Zr con- tent lower than 10%.
No
XRD
peaks corresponding to ZrO2 were detected,suggesting that the ZrO2 species probably were highly dispersed in NiO.
Weak and broad peak at ca. 31,assigned to 4924
Y.
Wu  et al. / Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 Table 1 The physicochemical properties of NiZrO nanoparticles.
Zr content/ mol% Size/nm
aoc/
A
SBETd/m2/g
Zrsurf contente/ mol% NiO
10.8a
4.1860
90
5
8.7a
4.1865
122
5.1
10
7.3a
4.1874
170
10.5
20
5.6a
4.1875
205
20.9
40
10b
4.1875
155
47.7
75
15b
88
85.4
ZrO2
12.1a
51
a Calculated by Scherrer formula. b Observed by
SEM.
c Cell parameter. d Surface area. e Surface atomic ratio: Zr/(Zr + Ni),derived from
XPS.
Fig.
2.
XRD
patterns of NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents (a: NiO,b:5%,c:10%,d:20%,e:40%,f:75%,g: ZrO2). amorphous ZrO2 phase,was observed for 20% and 40% NiZrO samples.
Due to the effect of the broad peak,the NiO-like phase shifted slightly to lower angle,especially the first peak at ca.
37.
As Zr content rose to 75%,obvious diffraction peaks of tetragonal ZrO2 were observed and the peaks of NiO phase were very weak.
The cell parameters variation was calculated by the peak positions of NiO-like phase by DebyeScherrer method.
The results,listed in Table 1,show that the cell parameter of the catalysts increased with the increasing Zr content up to 10%.
Such increase indicates that larger Zr4+ ions (0.72
A)
[32] could enter the lattice of nickel oxide and substitute Ni2+ (0.69
A)
sites,which results in lattice dis- tortion.
This result could be further confirmed by
HRTEM
image shown in Fig. 1(c).
Based on the d(2 0 0) value,the cell parameter of
4.1873
A
could be evaluated,consistent with the result calcu- lated by
XRD
method.
Further increase of the Zr amount,however,does not cause the alteration of the cell parameter.
The variation in cell parameter suggests the existence of a solid solution of Zr4+ ions in NiO.
The stable NiO cell parameter measured for the high-Zr loading (20%) samples indicate that it has reached an upper limit to the maximum possible dissolution of Zr4+ cations into the NiO lattice.
No detection on any
XRD
peaks related to phases of solid solution is probably a result of the little extent of Zr4+ infiltration.
Nevertheless,it could be suggested that there is a strong interaction between Zr and Ni.
Fig.
3.
H2-TPR
profiles of NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents (a: NiO,b:5%,c:10%,d:20%,e:40%,f:75%,g: ZrO2).
3.2.
H2-TPR
studies Fig. 3 illustrates the
H2-TPR
profiles of NiO and NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents.
Unlike large NiO with a reduction peak in the range of
300450 C
[33],two narrower reduction peaks at the lower temperature
(230330 C)
indicate NiO nanoparticles is easy to be reduced due to its small parti- cle sizes.
The low-temperature peak corresponds to the reduction of higher valence state NiO1+ on the surface,while the high- temperature peak is assigned to the reduction of bulk nickel oxide.
After the addition of Zr,the reduction peaks became broader and shifted to high temperature.
For 5% NiZrO catalyst,the shoulder peak at about
355 C
might be ascribed the reduction of NiONi.
Compared with pure NiO,the temperature was increased approx- imately
125 C
because of a weak interaction at the interface of NiO/ZrO2.
The main peak at about
415 C
could be attributed to the reduction of NiOZr due to the strong interaction between Zr and Ni cations.
The increase in Zr content to 10% resulted in the decrease of the low-temperature reduction peak.
Further increases in Zr content did not change the reduction profile a lot,only a little shift to high temperature was observed.
When Zr content increased to a higher level,a little shoulder peak which might be assigned to the reduction of NiO cluster surrounded by much ZrO2 appeared at high temperature.
It is obvious that the addition of Zr led to diffi- culty in catalysts reduction due to the interaction of Ni and Zr.
The difference of reduction profiles between NiO and NiZrO might be attributed to the combined effects of particle size and interaction of Zr and Ni.
The particle size of NiZrO with Zr content below 40% is smaller than that of NiO,and thus the reduction peaks might shift to low temperature.
Meanwhile,due to the infiltration of Zr,the catalysts became more difficult to be reduced and the reduc- tion peaks shifted to high temperature.
Therefore,the broadened reduction profiles are observed on the NiZrO catalysts,especially for the sample with low Zr concentration.
3.3.
XPS
studies
XPS
measurements were performed to obtain information about the oxidation state and chemical environment of the ele- ments on the surface of NiZrO nanoparticles.
As Fig. 4 showed,there was a main peak located at
528.8
eV for NiO nanoparti- cles in O1s spectra.
The binding energy
(B.E.)
of O1s was seen to shift from
529.0
eV for 5% NiZrO to
529.6
eV for 75% NiZrO,
Y.
Wu  et al. / Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 4925 Fig.
4.
XPS
spectra of NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents (a: NiO,b:5%,c:10%,d:20%,e:40%,f:75%,g: ZrO2). approaching that of ZrO2 (529.7 eV).
It might be because higher valence Zr4+ is easier to induce O2than Ni2+,so the electron den- sity around O2decreases and subsequently results in the increase of the O1s
B.E.
In the Ni2p3/2 spectra,all the samples exhibited two resolvable peaks at
B.E.
of around
853.4
and
855.3
eV,with a shakeup satellite at
860.5
eV,which are assigned to Ni2+ and Ni3+ species [3436].  The Ni2p3/2 binding energy was seen shifting to higher values with increasing Zr content,from
853.9
eV (5%) to
855.4
eV (75%).
The
B.E.
of the latter was near that of Ni3+.
It can be speculated that nanosized NiZrO contains more Ni2+ contents,so the
B.E.
was closer to that of Ni2O3.
The Zr3d5/2 B.E. was seen shifting to lower values with the Zr content decreasing.
The
B.E.
of 5% NiZrO (181.4 eV) was
0.4
eV less than that of ZrO2 nanopar- ticle (181.8 eV).
The occurrence of electron transfer is easier from low valence Ni2+ to high valence Zr4+ through the ZrONi bridge linkage.
Then the zirconium ion sites become electron-rich and Zr3d5/2 emission shifts to lower
B.E.
values,as is accordant with the change trend of Ni2p3/2 data.
The
XPS
results clearly indicate that the chemical valence of nickel and zirconium ion on the sur- face has distinct variation for NiZrO compared with that of pure NiO or ZrO2 nanoparticles.
It further confirms that there is a strong interaction between Zr and Ni,which may have a strong effect on the catalytic performance.
The quantitative results of the
XPS
analyses are also summarized in Table
1.
The values of the surface composition were derived from the integration of the Ni2p, Zr3d,and O1s core-level photoemis- sion spectra,using the appropriate sensitivity correction factors.
The results showed that the surface Zr/(Zr + Ni) atomic ratios of the catalyst with Zr content lower than 10% were close to the nominal.
Whereas,when the concentration of Zr exceeds a certain amount,it tended to be enriched on the surface.
3.4.
O2-TPD-MS
studies Fig. 5 shows the
O2-TPD-MS
fitting curves of NiO and 10% NiZrO nanoparticles.
NiO nanoparticles presented three peaks at about 305,373 and
461 C
respectively,denoting that there are at least three different types of oxygen species.
It was reported that oxygen desorption from NiO occurring at temperatures below
700 C
corresponds to the non-stoichiometric oxygen [27,37]. The peak located at
320360 C
was assigned to
O2,
while the peaks at
420450 C
and
>520 C
were assigned to Oon different sites [38].
Considering the effect of different experiment parameters and preparation methods [21],in this case it is reasonable to suggest the first oxygen desorption peak could be assigned to
O2,
and the two latter could be assigned to Ospecies.
The addition of Zr Fig.
5.
O2-TPD
fitting curves of NiO (a) and 10% NiZrO (b) catalysts.
Fig.
6.
O2-TPD-MS
patterns of NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents (a: NiO,b:5%,c:10%,d:20%,e:40%,f:75%,g: ZrO2). apparently reduced the amount of O2species due to the coverage of Ni species by ZrO2 on the surface.
The
O2-TPD-MS
profiles (Fig. 6) of NiZrO nanoparticles with various Zr contents showed that the total amount of non- stoichiometric oxygen species decreased,which is ascribed to the 4926
Y.
Wu  et al. / Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 Fig.
7.
Ethane (a) and oxygen (b) conversion as a function of temperature. decreased Ni content since the ZrO2 has no adsorption peak.
Nev- ertheless,the ratio of O/O2increased gradually with the increase of Zr content.
Besides,the desorption temperature of Ohas a shift to low temperature,indicating the better migratory capability of the oxygen species.
It can be attributed to the decreased electron donor capability of Ni cations with higher valence due to the inter- action between Ni and Zr.
For 75% NiZrO,only high-temperature adsorption oxygen species appeared without low-temperature ones.
It should be noted that the repetition of the
O2-TPD
exper- iments without prior O2 adsorption yielded the same desorption patterns.
This result indicates that the desorbed oxygen originates from the bulk structure of the materials under study.
3.5.
Catalyst performance The dependence of the catalytic behavior of the NiZrO cata- lysts on Zr content and reaction temperature for selective oxidation of ethane by oxygen is shown in Fig.
7.
The results in Fig. 7(a) showed that the catalytic performance strongly depended on the reaction temperature.
With reaction temperature rising,the ethane conversion increased.
Compared with pure NiO,the conversion of ethane on NiZrO catalysts decreased gradually with the increase of Zr content.
The conversion of oxygen exhibited a similar trend to that of ethane (Fig. 7(b)).
On pure NiO,the oxygen conversion Fig.
8.
Ethylene selectivity as a function of ethane conversion. was over 95% at
350 C
and the reaction became a limiting oxygen one.
With the addition of Zr,the oxygen conversion decreased at the same reaction temperature,suggesting an increase of ethylene selectivity since the formation of CO2 consumed more oxygen than
C2H4.
Ethylene selectivity versus ethane conversion is presented in Fig.
8.
The pure NiO exhibited about 55% selectivity with a low con- version,and showed an observable drop in selectivity for ethylene with increasing conversion due to secondary reaction of the olefin product.
When the conversion reached 50%,only 47% of ethylene selectivity could be obtained.
It is obvious that the addition of Zr remarkably promotes the ethylene selectivity.
Even a little amount (5%) of dopant could heighten selectivity up to approximate 60%.
It is worthwhile to note that the selectivity remained relatively sta- ble with the increased conversion.
A
further increase in Zr content could raise the selectivity to a certain level (ca. 66%).
High Zr con- tent (75%) brought the selectivity down again.
The highest yield of 40% could be obtained at
430 C
over 10% NiZrO catalyst.
Although nanosized NiO exhibited much higher activity than large NiO [21],an adverse factor of tending to deactivate at a low temperature will restrain nanosized NiO to obtain high ethylene yield.
At
350 C
NiO nanoparticles gave a maximum ethylene yield of 23% with ethylene selectivity of 47% and ethylene and CO2 were the only reaction products.
When reaction temperature was fur- ther increased,the catalyst would deactivate soon and ethylene selectivity decreases sharply to zero with high ethane conversion.
In this case,ethane mainly converses to COx as the deep oxidation product and CH4 from ethane cleavage.
We  defined the temper- ature as deactivation temperature (Tde) of a catalyst.
Tde of pure NiO nanoparticles was about
360 C,
while that of NiZrO cata- lyst showed an obvious rise.
Tde of 5% NiZrO was increased up to
410 C.
Further increase in Zr content could raise the temperature above
460 C.
In other words,ethane cleavage-resistant capability of catalysts was greatly enhanced with mixing ZrO2.
Obviously,compared with NiO, NiZrO is a better catalyst for
ODHE
with higher ethylene selectivity and ethane cleavage- resistant capability.
And thus,the added Zr should play an important role.
Since ZrO2 nanoparticles showed no activity below
550 C,
it is reasonable to suggest that NiO is the active site in this reaction.
The added Zr is highly dispersed in the catalyst and restrains the growth of NiO.
In general,the small particle size is beneficial for a catalyst to present a high catalytic activity.
As shown in Table 2,the NiZrO sample (particle size is 7 nm) exhibits higher activity than NiZrOL (particle size is 100 nm).
For the NiO and NiZrO catalyst,however,it should be noted that the size difference between the two catalysts is not so prominent (only about 25 nm).
It indicates that the change in the particle
Y.
Wu  et al. / Applied Surface Science 258 (2012) 4922 4928 4927 Table 2 The catalytic performances of the catalysts (Zr/(Zr + Ni) = 10 mol%) at
350 C.
Catalyst
Conv./%
C2H6
Selectivity/%
Yield/%
C2H4
C2H4
CO2
NiZrOa
22.6
67.3
32.7
15.3
ZrO2 + NiOb
41.2
46.8
53.2
22.5
NiZrOLc
15.1
66.7
33.3
10.1
a NiZrO calcined at
450 C.
b Mechanical mixture of ZrO2 and NiO. c NiZrO calcined at
600 C.
size of NiO cannot explain the catalytic behavior of NiZrO cat- alyst completely.
The dispersion and isolation of the additive Zr might play the more important role.
Thus,the different catalytic behaviors between NiO and NiZrO might be explained as fol- lows: On one hand,the decreased Ni concentration certainly leads to a decrease of ethane conversion.
On the other hand,the less- ened active site Ni could reduce the amount of non-stoichiometric oxygen,resulting in the decrease of catalytic activity.
At the same time,the chance of deep oxidation was also restrained at some level due to the isolation effect of Zr,and thus the ethylene selectivity was increased.
It can be concluded that the addition of well-dispersed Zr into NiO could contribute to improving the performance.
Similar results,however,could not be obtained on the catalyst of simply mixture of ZrO2 and NiO.
As shown in Table 2,the mechanically mixture of ZrO2 and NiO showed similar catalytic performance as pure NiO catalyst.
It indicates that there are more important reasons for the superior performance of NiZrO catalysts.
Based on the character- ization results of
TPR,
XRD,
and
XPS,
it can be found that there is a strong interaction between Ni and Zr,which influences the physic- ochemical property and consequently the behavior of catalyst.
Due to the combined effects of such interaction and particle size,the reduction peaks became broader and shifted to high temperature.
The decreased reducibility makes NiZrO catalysts more difficult to be reduced to Ni metal under the same condition.
It is benefi- cial to improve the ethane cleavage-resistant capability since the appearance of Ni metal in the catalyst is the main reason of ethane cleavage [33].
In addition,the interaction between Ni and Zr results in the increased valence and accepting electron capability of Ni cations.
Therefore,the active site Ni tends to adsorb Ospecies than non- selective oxygen species
O2,
which is in favor of the increase of ethylene selectivity.
The ratio of O/O2increased gradually with increasing Zr content,and thus the ethylene selectivity is increased distinctly except for 75% NiZrO.
Besides,the desorption tem- perature of Ohas a shift to low temperature,indicating a better migratory capability of the oxygen species.
The increased mobility of selective oxygen species Owould accelerate the transformation of oxygen to active oxygen species and thus favor selective oxida- tion.
Over 75% NiZrO catalyst,however,a low selectivity was obtained.
It might be due to the different existence forms of NiO.
The
XRD
result shows that very weak NiO peaks were observed.
Considering the NiO concentration is not low,we believe some NiO might exist in the form of amorphous or be doped into the ZrO2 lattice,which might be the reason of the low ethylene selectivity over 75% NiZrO catalyst.
Moreover,the acidity of catalyst generally could be related with its catalytic behavior for oxidative dehydrogenation reaction.
For NiZrO samples,however,the acidity has no direct connec- tion with catalytic behavior based on the
NH3-TPD
results (see Supporting Information Fig.
S1),  though the addition of Zr did change the acidity of catalysts.
Although the role of doped Zr,similar with Nb,is to increase ethylene selectivity,the change rule of physicochemical properties with dopant content was not quite similar.
It still needs to be further investigated whether the relatively stable electron structure is related with the less increas- ing amount in ethylene selectivity originated from the doping of Zr than Nb.
4.
Conclusion Uniform nanoparticles NiZrO catalysts with various Zr con- tents were prepared by a modified solgel method.
The strong interaction between Ni and Zr was detected in the synthesized catalyst.
The dopant Zr could enter the NiO lattice and lead to an increase in cell parameter.
The valence of Ni was increased due to electron transfer through the ZrONi bridge linkage.
The above two changes are believed to play important roles in the lessened reducibility and the distribution of adsorbed oxygen species.
The active site Ni tends to adsorb Ospecies than nonselective oxy- gen species
O2,
which is beneficial for the increase of ethylene selectivity.
At the same time,ethane conversion was decreased due to the reduced Ni concentration.
A
best yield to ethylene of 40% with 66% selectivity could be obtained over 10% NiZrO catalyst at
430 C.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What comprehensive characterization methods and analytical approaches are crucial for verifying the successful incorporation and homogeneous distribution of dopants in metal oxide catalysts, and how do these techniques address the challenges in establishing a clear relationship between dopant presence, structural changes, and enhanced catalytic performance while ruling out alternative explanations?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 