<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the coordination saturation of Pt atoms affects the selectivity of propane dehydrogenation, while the unsaturated Pt atoms can catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene are closely related to the surface structures, which governs the formation of coke. The acidity and coke mobility of the support also play a role in inhibiting coke formation. Various strategies have been proposed to inhibit coke formation, such as geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. The textural properties of supports, such as specific surface area, acid-base properties, and thermal stability, have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts. To prevent the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred to increase the dispersion of metal particles. Alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metal-support interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability. Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports. Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions. Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation. The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability. Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition. Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention. Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media. Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed. Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property. It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学性质和形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。例如，Pt原子的配位饱和度影响丙烷脱氢的选择性，而未饱和的Pt原子可以催化副反应，导致碳沉积。丙烯的吸附构型和强度与表面结构密切相关，这决定了焦炭的形成。支撑材料的酸性和焦炭流动性也在抑制焦炭形成中发挥作用。为了抑制焦炭形成，提出了多种策略，如几何分离、电子丰富性、酸性位点中毒、共进料流、增强氧流动性以及焦炭转移。支撑材料的纹理性质，如比表面积、酸碱性质和热稳定性，对Pt基催化剂的催化性能有显著影响。为了防止在支撑材料上发生不希望的焦炭和烷烃异构化，应仔细控制支撑材料的酸性。为了增加金属颗粒的分散度，优选具有高比表面积和均匀孔径分布的支撑材料。一些碱金属，如Li、Na和K，可以帮助毒化强酸位点，避免在Al2O3表面沉积焦炭。在Al2O3中掺杂Mg形成稳定的尖晶石相。具有丰富五配位Al原子的Al2O3纳米片由于其锚定Pt原子的能力而具有强烈的金属-支撑相互作用，这解释了它们的高稳定性。由于Pt和SiO2之间的弱相互作用，可以通过在SiO2支撑材料上直接H2预处理形成具有高合金度的Pt基双金属，如PtM金属间合金。相比之下，CeO2和金属颗粒之间存在强烈的相互作用，其中Pt原子可以以Pt离子的形式被捕获。此外，通过使用水蒸气，焦炭沉积可以被消除，这归因于CeO2在丙烷脱氢下的氧化还原性质。可调的Si/Al比和相对较大的比表面积可以阻止大烃分子的形成，从而防止所谓的焦炭沉积，提高催化稳定性。此外，一些介孔材料，如SBA-1561和MCM-41，通常用作催化剂支撑材料，以分散活性相，具有更多的活性位点和更少的焦炭沉积。二维（2D）早期过渡金属碳化物，即MXenes，由于其明确定义的结构和可调成分而受到广泛关注。此外，碳材料因其大比表面积、化学惰性和在酸性/碱性介质中的稳定性而被广泛用于大量反应。包括碳纳米管和石墨烯在内的新型纳米结构碳材料作为支撑材料逐渐被开发。显然，每种特定支撑材料都有其自身的特点，可能对催化性能产生独特的影响。它不仅可以改变选择性，影响金属颗粒的成分、形态和分布，还可以通过增加机械强度、抗烧结和抗焦炭性来改变反应稳定性。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
