<quotes>

[1] "In addition to promoters, good supports for dehydrogenation of alkanes have to be thermally stable, especially under harsh dehydrogenation and regeneration conditions. Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts."
[2] "For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled."
[3] "Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred."
[4] "Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface."
[5] "Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase."
[6] "In addition, the amount of coordinatively unsaturated penta-coordinate Al atoms on the surface of Al2O3 can also have a great impact on the catalytic properties."
[7] "An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability."
[8] "Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports."
[9] "Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions."
[10] "During the regeneration step, the CeO2 support can help facilitate atomic redispersion of Pt clusters without using corrosive halogens."
[11] "Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation."
[12] "The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability."
[13] "Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition."
[14] "In addition to oxide supports, some non-oxide-based supports such as carbides and carbon materials are applied."
[15] "Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention."
[16] "Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media."
[17] "Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed."
[18] "Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property."
[19] "It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, have significant influences on their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the support acidity should be carefully controlled to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred to increase the dispersion of metal particles. Alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. The amount of coordinatively unsaturated penta-coordinate Al atoms on the surface of Al2O3 can also have a great impact on the catalytic properties. Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability. Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports. Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions. During the regeneration step, the CeO2 support can help facilitate atomic redispersion of Pt clusters without using corrosive halogens. Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation. The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability. Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition. In addition to oxide supports, some non-oxide-based supports such as carbides and carbon materials are applied. Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention. Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media. Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed. Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property. It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学性质（如酸强度和稳定性）和形态特征，对脱氢反应中的性能有显著影响。例如，应仔细控制载体的酸性，以避免在载体上发生不希望的焦炭和烷烃异构化。为了增加金属颗粒的分散，优选具有高表面积和均匀孔径分布的载体。如Li、Na和K等碱金属可以帮助毒化强酸位点，避免Al2O3表面的焦炭沉积。在Al2O3中掺入Mg形成稳定的尖晶石相。Al2O3表面的五配位Al原子的数量也会对催化性能产生重大影响。具有大量五配位Al原子的Al2O3纳米片由于其锚定Pt原子的能力而与金属载体有强烈的相互作用，这解释了它们的高稳定性。由于Pt和SiO2之间的弱相互作用，可以通过直接在SiO2载体上进行H2预处理形成具有高合金度的PtM金属间合金等Pt基双金属。相比之下，CeO2和金属颗粒之间存在强烈的相互作用，其中Pt原子可以以Pt离子的形式被捕获。在再生步骤中，CeO2载体可以帮助促进Pt团簇的原子再分散，而无需使用腐蚀性卤素。此外，通过使用水蒸气，焦炭沉积可以被消除，这归因于CeO2在丙烷脱氢下的氧化还原性质。可调的Si/Al比和相对较大的表面积可以阻止大烃分子的形成，从而防止所谓的焦炭沉积，提高催化稳定性。此外，一些介孔材料，如SBA-1561和MCM-41，通常用作催化剂载体，以分散活性相，具有更多的活性位点和更少的焦炭沉积。除了氧化物载体，还应用了一些非氧化物载体，如碳化物和碳材料。二维（2D）早期过渡金属碳化物，即MXenes，由于其明确定义的结构和可调成分而受到广泛关注。此外，由于其大表面积、化学惰性和在酸性/碱性介质中的稳定性，碳材料已被广泛用于大量反应。包括碳纳米管和石墨烯在内的新型纳米结构碳材料作为载体逐渐被开发。显然，每种特定载体都有其自身的特点，可能对催化性能产生独特的影响。它不仅可以改变选择性，影响组分、形态和金属颗粒的分布，还可以通过增加机械强度、抗烧结和抗焦炭性能来改变反应稳定性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
