<quotes>

[1] "Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective."
[2] "In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified."
[3] "The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits."
[4] "The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important."
[5] "Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation."
[6] "The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows."
[7] "Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity."
[8] "Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity."
[9] "Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules."
[10] "Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination."
[11] "Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability."
[12] "Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the coordination state of Pt atoms affects their selectivity and activity in propane dehydrogenation. Coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms can catalyze side reactions, leading to the formation of carbon deposits. The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene are greatly influenced by the surface structures, which in turn governs coke formation. Tuning the acidity and coke mobility of the support can also inhibit coke formation. Various strategies have been developed to inhibit coke formation, including geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. These strategies can optimize the physicochemical properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学性质和形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。例如，Pt原子的配位状态影响其在丙烷脱氢中的选择性和活性。配位饱和的Pt原子对丙烷脱氢更有选择性，而配位不饱和的Pt原子可以催化副反应，导致碳沉积的形成。丙烯的吸附构型和强度受表面结构的极大影响，这反过来又控制着焦炭的形成。通过调节载体的酸性和焦炭流动性也可以抑制焦炭的形成。已经开发了各种策略来抑制焦炭的形成，包括几何分离、电子丰富性、酸性位点中毒、共喂流、增强氧流动性以及焦炭转移。这些策略可以优化催化剂的物理化学性质，以提高脱氢反应的催化效率和选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
