<quotes>

[1] "In addition to metals and metal oxides, the modern green chemical industry has made urgent and strict demands for environmentally and economically friendly catalysts, which has seriously restricted the large scale applications of conventional metal-based catalysts, especially precious metal and toxic metal oxides. Alternative carbon-based materials and carbides and nitrides have been investigated widely."
[2] "Transition metal carbides and nitrides are produced by incorporating C and N atoms into the interstitial sites of transition metals and the formation of carbides and nitrides can significantly modify the physical and chemical properties of the parent metals."
[3] "The tunable surface functionalities and the relatively large π-conjugation systems provide nanocarbon materials stable catalytic activity in dehydrogenation of alkanes."
[4] "The N-coordinated Co(ii) sites were very stable up to 750 K under a H2 atmosphere and active for propane dehydrogenation."
[5] "The main forms of deactivation are shown in Fig. 12a."
[6] "A first-order deactivation model is usually used to evaluate the catalyst stability:73 kd = (ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal]  ln[(1  Xinitial)/Xinitial])/t (6) where Xinitial represents the conversion measured in the initial period, Xfinal represents the conversion measured in the final period of an experiment, and t is the reaction time (h). kd represents the deactivation rate constant (h1); the higher the kd value is, the faster deactivation and lower stability are realized."
[7] "Therefore, for the design of catalytic systems with promoted performance, inhibition of deactivation can serve as an important requirement."
[8] "A number of synthetic strategies for inhibiting the deactivation have been shown, which can be classified in accordance with the modification of supports, metals and treatments (Fig. 12b)."
[9] "In the following sections, we will introduce the deactivation mechanisms and the inhibition strategies."
[10] "Coke preferentially covers the surface uncoordinated active sites, which might be the possible reason why the activity tends to decrease more rapidly on smaller nanoparticles."
[11] "In addition, the high reaction and regeneration temperatures can also lead to the sintering of Pt NPs, leaching and reconstruction deactivation of PtM alloys."
[12] "The aforementioned deactivation phenomena have a crucial influence on the catalytic performance."
[13] "Therefore, for the design of catalytic systems with promoted performance, inhibition of deactivation can serve as an important requirement."
[14] "A number of synthetic strategies for inhibiting the deactivation have been shown, which can be classified in accordance with the modification of supports, metals and treatments (Fig. 12b)."
[15] "In the following sections, we will introduce the deactivation mechanisms and the inhibition strategies."
[16] "Compared with flat surfaces (6372 kJ mol1), the energy barrier to form propylene is much lower on step sites (2434 kJ mol1) by DFT calculations."
[17] "Propylidyne intermediates, as precursors for coke formation and hydrogenolysis, can be easily generated, causing propane to adsorb strongly on the former."
[18] "The dehydrogenation product of propylene, C3H5*, can be taken as a model precursor for coke deposition."
[19] "In addition to the coke formation on Pt NPs, the coke types and positions on Pt-supported catalysts have been studied, which are classified into three locations: on Pt metal, on the Ptsupport boundary, and on supports."
[20] "For Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, coked during propane dehydrogenation, have been studied using temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO)."
[21] "TPO profiles on the PtSn catalyst imply that different peaks are consistent with coke on and near the metal, graphitic and disordered coke on the support, respectively."
[22] "The amount of coke that can be attributed to the third peak increases with temperature and propane partial pressure."
[23] "Both facilitating the propylene desorption and increasing the dehydrogenation barrier of propylene result in less coke."
[24] "As the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important."
[25] "Additionally, tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation."
[26] "The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows."
[27] "Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity."
[28] "For example, Gong and coworkers described an investigation of the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH.44"
[29] "The interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for CC bond breaking, and facilitates C3H6 desorption as well."
[30] "The optimized loading content of Cu is 0.5 wt%, which increases the C3H6 yield to 36.5% with a C3H6 selectivity of 90.8% and less coke."
[31] "Specifically, owing to the site-isolated Pt, C3H5 as a model precursor of coke formation can only contact with its surface through a single bond instead of more stable three PtC interactions on a 3-fold hollow site over Pt(111), which can significantly inhibit the structure-sensitive deep dehydrogenation side reactions."
[32] "For example, Pt/Cu single-atom alloys (SAAs) break the scaling relationship of Pt3M (M = 3d and 4d transition metals) alloys and eliminate the structure-sensitive deep dehydrogenation to improve the propylene selectivity up to 90%.45,135"
[33] "In regard to the significance of isolated active sites (i.e., geometric effects), a similar inference has been implied for PdIn/SiO2 intermetallic alloys in ethane dehydrogenation (EDH).136"
[34] "As mentioned above, the empty d orbital of Pt can be occupied by electrons transferred from electron-rich C3H6 which acts as an electron-donor."
[35] "A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity."
[36] "Since the reactivity of metal nanoparticle surfaces is determined by the electronic states through the valence d-bands, which is a region in the partial density of states (DOS) (Fig. 13c),42 alloying with diverse promoters have a great impact on the energies and availability of the valence electrons to form chemical bonds with adsorbates, which is a feasible way to modulate the surface electronic structure and hence the reactivity."
[37] "Jeffrey Greeley and coworkers applied an integrated approach using DFT calculations, kinetics, and in situ X-ray spectroscopies."
[38] "The modified energy of the Pt 5d electrons by the amalgamation of Zn into the catalyst surface is directly related to transformation of rate promotion, while the ensemble effects of PtZn ensembles contribute to enhanced C3H6 selectivity (Fig. 13d).42"
[39] "In addition to the alloys, the addition of an appropriate amount of reducible metal oxides such as TiO2 improves catalytic stability and C3H6 selectivity, which is attributed to the electron transfer from partially reduced TiOx (x < 2) to Pt atoms.72"
[40] "In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules."
[41] "Another approach has been the use of non-acidic supports that lead to fewer cracking and polymerization reactions compared with acidic supports."
[42] "Alumina is a conventional support applied to platinum-based catalysts for dehydrogenation due to its high surface area, outstanding mechanical strength and thermal stability, which is beneficial to disperse platinum clusters on surfaces and thus enhance the stability of the catalyst."
[43] "However, most alumina supports are acidic, which tends to accelerate coke formation; therefore alkaline promoters are used to poison acid sites and curb support acidity, such as Li, Na, and K."
[44] "Zn and Mg with different ratios have also been used to dope the support (Fig. 13e), where the samples with a Zn/(Zn+Mg) of 0.05 showed the highest propylene selectivity (Fig. 13f),137 because the resulting spinel phase is less acidic and thermally more stable."
[45] "Another way to modify an Al2O3 support is to introduce metal oxides (such as TiO2, and CeO2) into it."
[46] "Due to the enhanced interaction between Pt and the supports, the activity, stability and anti-coking capability of Pt-based catalysts would be improved to a large extent."
[47] "This kind of modification decreases the acidity of supports, and modulates the dispersion and the electronic properties of Pt."
[48] "In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination."
[49] "Increasing hydrogen pressure leads to a lower coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors on the surface (Fig. 13g).138"
[50] "More recent experiments show that an increasing TOF of propylene during propane dehydrogenation is observed with increasing H2/C3H8 inlet ratio (Fig. 13h)."
[51] "Several explanations are suggested: (i) H2 reduces the coverage of coke precursors, (ii) reaction energies and barriers depend on H2 coverage in a beneficial way, (iii) an alternative and energetically favorable reaction pathway exists at increased H2 coverage and (iv) subsurface hydrogen that may have emerged at high H2 coverage has an effect."
[52] "In addition to H2, cofeeding CO2 is an attractive method, where CO2 acts as a soft oxidant, and can reduce the amount of coke formed at elevated temperature on the catalysts via the reverse Boudouard reaction, thereby increasing conversion and maintaining the stability of the catalysts.139"
[53] "The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability."
[54] "As one of the most significant rare earth oxides, ceria has been widely employed."
[55] "When the cubic fluorite structure of CeO2 is modified with Ga3+ cations, both the surface oxygen mobility and lattice oxygen storage capacity are enhanced.140"
[56] "DFT calculations show that the addition of Ga can greatly improve C3H6 desorption, and inhibit deep dehydrogenation and the subsequent coke formation."
[57] "In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life."
[58] "The interaction between Pt and coke precursors is weakened by Pt atoms with high electron density, leading the coke precursors to migrate from the Pt sites to supports, hence resisting coke deposition and improving the stability of the catalyst to a large extent (Fig. 13i)."
[59] "Consequentially, the coke amount was significantly decreased as the O2-TPO profiles in Fig. 13j show.72"
[60] "Experimentally, the addition of Sn does not only inhibit CC bond cleavage and improve selectivity towards styrene, but also allow the coke precursors to migrate from the active metals to supports with large surface area."
[61] "A drain off effect is proposed to explain the decrease of the coke coverage on the metallic sites upon addition of Sn."
[62] "But until now, the coke transfer pathway has not been directly demonstrated."
[63] "As discussed above, Pt cluster size has a significant influence on the dehydrogenation pathway."
[64] "However, the Pt nanoparticles usually suffer from sintering at high PDH reaction and regeneration temperatures, which could lead to their permanent deactivation."
[65] "In principle, two aspects cause the sintering of metal particles."
[66] "The Ostwald ripening mechanism has been implied for metal nanoparticle sintering, which occurs between the nanoparticles with cognizable diameters."
[67] "Due to their higher surface energies, smaller particles nearby are sacrificed to enhance the interparticle transport of mobile species, causing the larger particles to grow.141"
[68] "In addition, the migrationcoalescence process has also been implied to the metal sintering, which involves in the Brownian motion of metal nanoparticles on the catalyst surface, resulting in the formation of larger particles when the small particles are close to each other."
[69] "In PDH reactions, the Ostwald ripening has been demonstrated to be the main sintering mechanism due to the low Tammann temperature of Pt (750 C)."
[70] "To date, many efforts have been directed towards inhibiting the sintering and/or helping re-disperse the aggregated nanoparticles during the dehydrogenation and regeneration processes."
[71] "Strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) can be generated from chemical reactions at the metaloxide interface, diffusion, and charge redistribution with a metal contacting with a reducible oxide."
[72] "Alumina-supported Pt is one of the major industrial catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation."
[73] "Compared to Al2O3, CeO2 is unique on account of its ability to trap Pt atoms in an ionic form due to the stronger SMSI (Fig. 14a)."
[74] "The CeO2-supported PtSn clusters are highly stable, even upon extending the reaction temperature to 680 C."
[75] "Moreover, upon oxidation the PtSn clusters easily recover to the atomically dispersed species on CeO2 as shown in the TEM images in Fig. 14b, making PtSn/CeO2 a fully regenerable catalyst without deactivation of reaction performance (Fig. 14c).74"
[76] "In addition to the oxide supports, SMSI is also developed on non-oxide carriers in PDH reactions."
[77] "Yue Wu and coworkers reported thermally stable PtTi intermetallic NPs prepared via SMSI between platinum and MXenes."
[78] "The results in this case showed that the catalysts become highly selective and stable for light alkane dehydrogenation.55"
[79] "The confinement situation offered by a support can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals, and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters avoiding from sintering."
[80] "The package of a Pt core with an oxide shell could effectively prevent the aggregation of Pt nanoparticles at high temperatures, and changing the core particle size and the thickness of the shell is helpful in realizing controllable catalytic performances."
[81] "The coated Pt@SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst exhibited better stability during propane dehydrogenation compared with the conventional PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, which is due to the peculiar coated structure and the coated configuration being maintained up to 700 C."
[82] "In addition, nanocarbons, such as carbon nanotubes and nanodiamonds, are outstanding catalyst supports for dehydrogenation (Fig. 14d)."
[83] "Compared with Al2O3 supports (Fig. 14e), a defective graphene nanoshell leads to a strong protective effect in inhibiting the agglomeration of Pt NPs (Fig. 14f).142"
[84] "In addition, mesoporous materials have been reported as promising supports for Pt-based catalysts for PDH owing to their confinement effect."
[85] "Gong and coworkers used SBA-15 as a support and revealed that the average size of a SBA-15-supported PtFe@Pt catalyst is 6.9  0.5 nm,47 and that of SiO2-supported PtFe@Pt is 21.4  1.9 nm, indicating that the mesoporous structure of SBA-15 can confine the nanoparticles inside to prevent them from severe sintering during the reduction operation."
[86] "Compared to the encapsulation with mesoporous zeolites, a novel strategy for preparing stable metal nanoparticle catalysts is provided by fixing metal species in zeolite crystals (metal@zeolite), where the stiff zeolite framework is beneficial to stabilize the metal nanoparticles."
[87] "Avelino Corma and coworkers found an innovative approach that can generate Pt nanoparticles and single Pt atoms with remarkably high thermal stability, formed within purely siliceous MCM-22 during the growth of a two-dimensional zeolite into three dimensions."
[88] "High temperature oxidationreduction treatments lead to conversion of encapsulated Pt species to small nanoparticles in the estimated size range of 1 to 2 nm.143"
[89] "A second metal element such as Sn can be incorporated together with Pt following the same synthesis procedure."
[90] "A similar situation occurred again."
[91] "After calcination in air, Pt species in the K-free PtSn@MFI sample agglomerate into nanoparticles, while the Pt species in the KPtSn@MFI sample remain atomically dispersed (Fig. 14g and h).66,83"
[92] "As displayed in Fig. 14i, the apparent Pt dispersion decreases with reduction time, especially from 0 to 6 h."
[93] "The decrease in exposed surface Pt should be caused by the formation of PtSn interactions in a scenario in which partially reduced Sn species interact with the external surfaces of the Pt clusters."
[94] "Consequently, the high catalytic performance of KPtSn@MFI can be maintained for at least three reactionregeneration cycles without obvious deactivation."
[95] "Regenerating catalysts under oxidizing (or oxychlorination) conditions followed by H2 reduction is supposed to be an effective method to remove the coke and reactivate the catalysts."
[96] "Nevertheless, such continuous generation may not entirely restore catalytic performance, structural transformation and then the eventual loss of activity and selectivity in consecutive cycles.144"
[97] "Significantly, for spent Al2O3-supported PtSn catalysts, a portion of the Sn, which remains atomically dispersed, is favorable for redispersion of the Pt to form small nanoparticles on the Al2O3 surface.63"
[98] "However, without Sn, Pt may sinter into larger nanoparticles during oxidative regeneration."
[99] "In addition, the metal leaching and segregation reconstruction can also lead to catalyst deactivation by high PDH temperatures and complex atmospheres."
[100] "Although many efforts have been made, further understanding of the deactivation mechanism and proposals of effective strategies should be achieved."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Chemical qualities, such as acid strength and stability, can affect the selectivity and stability of the catalyst. Morphological characteristics, such as surface area and pore structure, can influence the accessibility of reactants to the active sites and the diffusion of products. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, modifying the acidity of the support can improve the selectivity towards desired products and inhibit side reactions. Introducing metal oxides into the support can enhance the interaction between the active metal and the support, improving the stability and anti-coking capability of the catalyst. Tuning the surface functionalities and π-conjugation systems of nanocarbon materials can provide stable catalytic activity in dehydrogenation of alkanes. Incorporating C and N atoms into the interstitial sites of transition metals to form carbides and nitrides can significantly modify the physical and chemical properties of the parent metals, leading to improved catalytic performance. The N-coordinated Co(ii) sites on carbon materials can be very stable and active for propane dehydrogenation.
2.Catalyst deactivation can occur due to various factors, including coke formation, sintering, and metal leaching. Coke formation can cover the active sites and inhibit the diffusion of reactants and products, leading to decreased activity and selectivity. Sintering can result in the aggregation of metal nanoparticles, reducing the surface area and active sites, and thus decreasing the catalytic performance. Metal leaching can lead to the loss of active components and activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Geometric separation involves separating the active metal components to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve selectivity. Electron richness refers to increasing the electron density of the metal particles to weaken metal-carbon bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and carbon-carbon cleavage, promoting the desorption of products. Poisoning acid sites involves using non-acidic supports or adding alkaline promoters to reduce the acidity of the support and curb support acidity, which can accelerate coke formation. Cofeeding streams, such as hydrogen or carbon dioxide, can help reduce the coverage of coke precursors and promote the desorption of products. Enhancing oxygen mobility can help eliminate coke deposition over supported metals, improving catalytic stability. Coke transfer involves transferring coke precursors from the metal surface to the support, resisting coke deposition and improving catalyst stability.
3.Modifying the support's acidity and coke mobility can inhibit coke formation. The support's acidity can be modified by using non-acidic supports or adding alkaline promoters to reduce the acidity of the support and curb support acidity, which can accelerate coke formation. Coke mobility can be enhanced by using supports with high surface area and large pore volume, which can facilitate the diffusion of coke precursors away from the active sites. Additionally, tuning the support's electronic properties, such as the d-band center, can also inhibit coke formation. The d-band center of the metal particles can be modulated by alloying with other metals or doping with non-metallic elements, which can weaken the metal-carbon bonds and inhibit coke precursors.
4.Strategies to inhibit sintering include strong metal-support interaction (SMSI), encapsulation, and embedding. SMSI can be generated from chemical reactions at the metal-oxide interface, diffusion, and charge redistribution with a metal contacting with a reducible oxide. This can help stabilize metal nanoparticles during dehydrogenation reactions. Encapsulation involves coating the metal core with an oxide shell, which can prevent the aggregation of metal nanoparticles at high temperatures. Embedding involves fixing metal species in zeolite crystals, where the stiff zeolite framework can stabilize the metal nanoparticles.
5.Strategies to inhibit metal leaching include using supports with high thermal stability and mechanical strength, which can prevent the leaching of metal particles during dehydrogenation reactions. Additionally, using supports with high surface area and large pore volume can help disperse metal particles and reduce the likelihood of metal leaching. Using supports with high metal-support interaction can also help stabilize metal particles and prevent leaching.
6.Strategies to inhibit deactivation caused by regeneration include using supports with high thermal stability and mechanical strength, which can withstand the high temperatures and mechanical stresses during regeneration. Additionally, using supports with high surface area and large pore volume can help disperse metal particles and reduce the likelihood of metal sintering during regeneration. Using supports with high metal-support interaction can also help stabilize metal particles and prevent sintering during regeneration.
7.Strategies to inhibit deactivation caused by structural transformation include using supports with high thermal stability and mechanical strength, which can withstand the high temperatures and mechanical stresses during dehydrogenation reactions. Additionally, using supports with high surface area and large pore volume can help disperse metal particles and reduce the likelihood of metal sintering during dehydrogenation reactions. Using supports with high metal-support interaction can also help stabilize metal particles and prevent sintering during dehydrogenation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学品质和形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。化学品质，如酸强度和稳定性，可以影响催化剂的选择性和稳定性。形态特征，如表面积和孔结构，可以影响反应物到达活性位点的可及性和产物的扩散。通过支持体改性策略可以优化这些性质，以增强催化效率和选择性。例如，修改支持体的酸性可以提高对所需产物的选择性并抑制副反应。将金属氧化物引入支持体可以增强活性金属与支持体之间的相互作用，提高催化剂的稳定性和抗焦炭能力。调整纳米碳材料的表面功能性和π共轭系统可以为烷烃的脱氢提供稳定的催化活性。将C和N原子嵌入过渡金属的间隙位点以形成碳化物和氮化物可以显著改变母金属的物理和化学性质，从而提高催化性能。碳材料上的N配位Co(ii)位点可以非常稳定且对丙烷脱氢具有活性。
2.催化剂失活可能由于各种因素，包括焦炭形成、烧结和金属浸出。焦炭形成可以覆盖活性位点，抑制反应物和产物的扩散，导致活性和选择性降低。烧结会导致金属纳米颗粒的聚集，减少表面积和活性位点，从而降低催化性能。金属浸出会导致活性组分的损失和活性的降低。抑制失活的策略包括几何分离、电子丰富性、酸性位点中毒、共进料流、增强氧流动性以及焦炭转移。几何分离涉及分离活性金属组分，以抑制结构敏感的副反应并提高选择性。电子丰富性是指增加金属颗粒的电子密度，以削弱金属-碳键，抑制焦炭前体，并抑制深度脱氢和碳-碳断裂，促进产物的解吸。酸性位点中毒涉及使用非酸性支持体或添加碱性促进剂以降低支持体的酸性并抑制支持体酸性，这会加速焦炭形成。共进料流，如氢气或二氧化碳，可以帮助减少焦炭前体的覆盖并促进产物的解吸。增强氧流动性可以帮助消除支撑金属上的焦炭沉积，提高催化稳定性。焦炭转移涉及将焦炭前体从金属表面转移到支持体，抵抗焦炭沉积并提高催化剂稳定性。
3.通过修改支持体的酸性和焦炭流动性可以抑制焦炭形成。支持体的酸性可以通过使用非酸性支持体或添加碱性促进剂来修改，以降低支持体的酸性并抑制支持体酸性，这会加速焦炭形成。可以通过使用高表面积和大孔体积的支持体来增强焦炭流动性，这可以促进焦炭前体远离活性位点的扩散。此外，通过调整支持体的电子性质，如d带中心，也可以抑制焦炭形成。可以通过与其他金属合金化或用非金属元素掺杂来调节金属颗粒的d带中心，这可以削弱金属-碳键并抑制焦炭前体。
4.抑制烧结的策略包括强金属-支持体相互作用（SMSI）、封装和嵌入。SMSI可以从金属-氧化物界面的化学反应、扩散和与可还原氧化物接触的金属的电荷再分配中产生。这可以帮助在脱氢反应期间稳定金属纳米颗粒。封装涉及用氧化物壳层涂覆金属核心，这可以防止金属纳米颗粒在高温下的聚集。嵌入涉及将金属物种固定在沸石晶体中，其中刚性的沸石框架可以稳定金属纳米颗粒。
5.抑制金属浸出的策略包括使用具有高热稳定性和机械强度的支持体，这可以防止在脱氢反应期间金属颗粒的浸出。此外，使用具有高表面积和大孔体积的支持体可以帮助分散金属颗粒并降低金属浸出的可能性。使用具有高金属-支持体相互作用的支持体也可以帮助稳定金属颗粒并防止浸出。
6.抑制由再生引起的失活的策略包括使用具有高热稳定性和机械强度的支持体，这可以承受再生过程中的高温和机械应力。此外，使用具有高表面积和大孔体积的支持体可以帮助分散金属颗粒并降低再生过程中金属烧结的可能性。使用具有高金属-支持体相互作用的支持体也可以帮助稳定金属颗粒并防止再生过程中的烧结。
7.抑制由结构转变引起的失活的策略包括使用具有高热稳定性和机械强度的支持体，这可以承受脱氢反应过程中的高温和机械应力。此外，使用具有高表面积和大孔体积的支持体可以帮助分散金属颗粒并降低脱氢反应过程中金属烧结的可能性。使用具有高金属-支持体相互作用的支持体也可以帮助稳定金属颗粒并防止脱氢反应过程中的烧结。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
