<quotes>
[1] "For the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP), the initial rates of products formation over differently-loaded VOx/-Al2O3 catalytic materials (0.59.5 wt.% of vanadium) were derived from near differential degree of conversion for two different oxidants, i.e. O2 and N2O."
[2] "By replacement of O2 with N2O, overall activity decreased, while the selectivity towards propene formation increased for the same degree of propane conversion."
[3] "The fundamental insights into phase composition,reduction, structure and dispersion of vanadium sites as well as electronic properties of VOx/-Al2O3 were derived from characterisation of the materials by XRD, TPR, EPR, UVVIS diffuse reflectance spectroscopies (UVVIS-DRS), contact potential difference (CPD) and electrical conductivity measurements."
[4] "As a result of the characterisation studies, the following relationships between catalytic performance and solid-material properties were obtained. Isolated sites are beneficial for propene selectivity but they do not completely cover the support surface, on which propene can be adsorbed and further oxidised to COx."
[5] "A high selectivity to propene can be achieved by covering the support fully by well-dispersed vanadia species."
[6] "Since N2O decomposition, over the studied mate- rials, is less favourable than O2 activation, a decrease in the steady-state concentration of active sites and an increase of the propene selectivity is achieved."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The initial rates of products formation during the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) were derived from differently-loaded VOx/-Al2O3 catalytic materials with varying amounts of vanadium (0.5 to 9.5 wt.%). Two oxidants were used for this purpose: oxygen (O2) and nitrous oxide (N2O).

2. Replacing oxygen (O2) with nitrous oxide (N2O) led to a decrease in overall activity but an increase in the selectivity towards propene formation, maintaining the same degree of propane conversion.

3. Insights into the phase composition, reduction, structure, dispersion of vanadium sites, and electronic properties of VOx/-Al2O3 were obtained through characterizations using X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermogravimetric analysis (TPR), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), ultraviolet-visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UVVIS-DRS), contact potential difference (CPD), and electrical conductivity measurements.

4. The relationship between catalytic performance and solid-material properties was established, indicating that isolated sites enhance propene selectivity, though they do not completely cover the support surface where propene can be adsorbed and further oxidized to COx.

5. A high selectivity for propene can be achieved by fully covering the support surface with well-dispersed vanadia species.

6. The decrease in the steady-state concentration of active sites and an increase in propene selectivity were observed due to the less favorable decomposition of nitrous oxide (N2O) over the studied materials compared to oxygen (O2) activation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在不同负载量的VOx/-Al2O3催化剂材料（含钒量为0.5至9.5 wt.%）中，通过两种氧化剂（氧气O2和氮氧化物N2O）获得了丙烷氧化脱氢反应（ODP）产物形成过程的初始速率。

2. 用氮氧化物（N2O）代替氧气（O2）导致总体活性降低，但丙烯选择性提高，同时保持相同的丙烷转化率。

3. 通过对X射线衍射（XRD）、热重分析（TPR）、电子顺磁共振（EPR）、紫外可见漫反射光谱（UVVIS-DRS）、接触电位差（CPD）和电导率测量等技术进行材料表征，获得了关于相组成、还原性、结构、钒物种分散性和电子性质的基本见解。

4. 根据表征研究结果，催化性能与固体材料属性之间的关系被建立，表明孤立的位点有利于丙烯选择性，但它们并未完全覆盖支持表面，在该表面上丙烯可以吸附并进一步氧化为COx。

5. 通过全面覆盖支持表面并分散分布的钒物种，可以获得高丙烯选择性。

6. 由于在研究材料中，氮氧化物（N2O）的分解不如氧气（O2）活化有利，因此观察到稳态活性位点浓度下降以及丙烯选择性增加。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
