<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide a detailed explanation of the Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for catalytic dehydrogenation reactions. However, it does discuss the mechanism of ethane dehydrogenation over Cr/Al2O3 catalysts. The mechanism involves the adsorption of ethane to form an ethyl species, followed by desorption of ethene and hydrogen. Transient kinetic data suggest that ethane adsorption is the rate-determining step of the reaction. The absence of significant isotopic scrambling during the 13C ethane experiment suggests that large hydrocarbon intermediates are not part of the reaction cycle leading to ethene formation. The results of the D2 addition experiment show that only one hydrogen is exchanged for deuterium in ethane, indicating an end-on, dissociative adsorption of ethane on the catalyst surface. Ethene experiences more HD exchange than ethane, and significantly more mono- than bi-deuterated ethene molecules are observed. This observation may indicate that ethene is adsorbed end-on as an ethyl entity on a Cr3+-O moiety, which may either be further hydrogenated to ethane or, preferably, dehydrogenated back to ethene. The short residence times for surface intermediates, as indicated by the transient experiment, suggest that neither b-H transfer of an ethyl species nor ethene desorption is the rate-limiting step of the reaction. The results obtained in this work indicate that ethane adsorption is the rate-limiting step of the reaction over a Cr/Al2O3 catalyst.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有详细解释Horiuti-Polanyi催化脱氢反应机制。但是，它确实讨论了Cr/Al2O3催化剂上乙烷脱氢的机制。该机制涉及乙烷吸附形成乙基物种，随后脱氢和乙烯脱附。瞬态动力学数据表明，乙烷吸附是反应的速率决定步骤。在13C乙烷实验中没有观察到显著的同位素混乱，表明大型烃类中间体不是导致乙烯形成的反应循环的一部分。D2添加实验的结果显示，只有乙烷中的一个氢被氘交换，表明乙烷在催化剂表面以端位、解离的方式吸附。乙烯比乙烷经历更多的HD交换，观察到的单氘化乙烯分子显著多于双氘化乙烯分子。这一观察结果可能表明，乙烯以端位乙基实体的形式吸附在Cr3+-O基团上，该基团可能进一步氢化为乙烷，或者更优选地，脱氢回乙烯。瞬态实验表明的表面中间体的短停留时间表明，乙基物种的b-H转移或乙烯脱附都不是反应的速率限制步骤。本工作中获得的结果表明，乙烷吸附是Cr/Al2O3催化剂上反应的速率限制步骤。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
