This article was downloaded by: [The University of British Columbia]
On: 19 February 2013, At: 03:45
Publisher: Taylor & Francis
Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered
office: Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK
Catalysis Reviews: Science and
Engineering
Publication details, including instructions for authors and
subscription information:
http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between
Enzymatic, Homogeneous, and
Heterogeneous Catalysis
Avelino Corma a
a Instituto de Tecnología Química (UPV‐CSIC), Avda. de los Naranjos
s/n, Valencia, 46022, Spain
Version of record first published: 02 Nov 2011.
To cite this article: Avelino Corma (2004): Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic,
Homogeneous, and Heterogeneous Catalysis, Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 46:3-4,
369-417
To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1081/CR-200036732
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Full terms and conditions of use: http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms-and-conditions
This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any
substantial or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing,
systematic supply, or distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden.
The publisher does not give any warranty express or implied or make any representation
that the contents will be complete or accurate or up to date. The accuracy of any
instructions, formulae, and drug doses should be independently verified with primary
sources. The publisher shall not be liable for any loss, actions, claims, proceedings,
demand, or costs or damages whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or
indirectly in connection with or arising out of the use of this material.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic,
Homogeneous, and Heterogeneous Catalysis
Avelino Corma*
Instituto de Tecnologı
´a Quı
´mica (UPV-CSIC), Valencia, Spain
CONTENTS
ABSTRACT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
I.
INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
II.
MIMICKING ENZYMES CATALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 371
A.
Structural Analogues of Enzymes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 371
B.
Functional Analogues of Enzymes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373
III.
CATALYTIC ANTIBODIES
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
IV.
IMPRINTED TRANSITION STATE ANALOGUES . . . . . . . . . . . 378
A.
Molecularly Imprinted Polymers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
B.
Imprinted Amorphous Oxides
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
C.
Polymer–Metal Oxides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
V.
IMPRINTING CRYSTALLINE SILICAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
VI.
COMBINING TS SHAPE RECOGNITION AND ACTIVE SITES . . . 386
A.
Combining Imprinting of TSA and Catalytic Active Site . . . . . . 386
B.
Shape Recognition and Active Sites in Zeolites . . . . . . . . . . . 386
369
DOI: 10.1081/CR-200036732
0161-4940 (Print); 1520-5703 (Online)
Copyright # 2004 by Marcel Dekker, Inc.
www.dekker.com
*Correspondence: Avelino Corma, Instituto de Tecnologı
´a Quı
´mica (UPV-CSIC), Avda. de los
Naranjos s/n, Valencia 46022, Spain; E-mail: acorma@itq.upv.es.
CATALYSIS REVIEWS
Vol. 46, No. 3–4, pp. 369–417, 2004
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
VII.
HOMOGENEOUS AND HOMOGENEOUS-SUPPORTED
CATALYSTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
A.
The Solid Acts as an “Inert” Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
B.
The Solid Stabilizes the Metal Complex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
C.
The Solid Modiﬁes Adsorption Properties and Concentrates
Reactants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
D.
The Solid Preactivates the Reactants or
Helps to Stabilize the Transition State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
E.
Molecular Imprinting of Metal Complexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
VIII.
DESIGN OF MULTISITE CATALYSTS: CATALYZING CASCADE
REACTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
IX.
CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
REFERENCES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
ABSTRACT
Bio-inspired and single site metal complex catalysts have been discussed to direct
towards a rational design of solid heterogeneous catalysts. When concepts derived
from catalytic antibodies, molecular imprinting and molecular recognition, and site iso-
lation and modiﬁcation by appropriate ligands are combined, with new techniques to
prepare, tailor made solid materials, catalysts can be prepared that improve reaction
rate and selectivity by increasing the concentration and activation of reactants in the
vicinity of the active sites, and by stabilizing transition states or intermediate products.
It is also shown that enzymatic, homogeneous and hetergeneous catalysts can be com-
bined to perform “one-pot” cascade reactions.
Key Words:
Catalytic antibodies; Molecular imprinting for catalysis; Single site
catalysis; Heterogeneization of homogeneous catalysts; Multifunctional catalysts.
1.
INTRODUCTION
Catalysis has always been associated with conversion and selectivity, in such a way
that these were the two properties which deﬁned a desirable catalyst. While this continues
to be true today, the requirements for a successful catalyst have been expanded in order
to cope with the concept of sustainability. Thus, a modern catalyst should not only be
highly active and selective, but it should also be environmentally friendly, and to generate
a process which consumes a minimum of energy.
Catalysts for sustainable chemistry have been developed during millions of years on
the earth and they are called enzymes. Indeed, enzymatic catalysis is able to perform
highly selective organic reactions under mild conditions, while generating residues that
Corma
370
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
are compatible with nature. The differential factor that make enzymes so unique is the pre-
sence of isolated homogeneous catalytic active sites that, by being included in protein
matrices, achieve speciﬁc interactions with reactants or, in other words, attain an opti-
mized adsorption state. It is interesting to notice that, with available metals and organic
molecules, nature has obtained by means of combinatorial synthesis, using genetic algor-
ithms, speciﬁc catalysts for speciﬁc reactions occurring in living species. This combina-
torial technique can also be one of the leads we may follow for synthesizing future
speciﬁc catalysts.
With respect to the knowledge achieved on biological catalysis, the determination
of the structure of the active site and its interaction with the protein system, by means
of high resolution diffraction studies, has played a decisive role. The “anatomic” together
with the “physiological” or mechanistic knowledge achieved, has allowed, in some cases,
to elucidate the role that each component of the enzyme plays in a given reaction.
Moreover, it has been possible to go one step further and to modify by mutagenesis
some of the enzyme components, to extend their catalytic properties, and/or to improve
the stability of the enzyme toward changes in temperature, pH or resistance to some
potential poisons.
This work will show how bioinspiration from enzymes, catalytic and antibodies when
combined with single site catalysts from homogeneous catalysis can help in the rational
design of more active and selective solid catalysts where molecular recognition plays a
determinant role.
2.
MIMICKING ENZYMES CATALYSIS
Owing to the exceptional characteristics of the enzymes, it has been a tendency to use
these as catalysts but supported on organic or inorganic matrices in order to facilitate its
recovering, puriﬁcation, and recycling. In this sense recent high surface area structured
solids such as mesoporous molecular sieves and delaminated zeolites can offer advantages
over more conventional supports.[1–3]
More recently, bio-inorganic chemists have approached catalysis by enzymes
following two additional routes that involve the synthesis of biomimetic systems:
. Search for structural analogues of enzymes.
. Search for functional enzyme models.
2.1.
Structural Analogues of Enzymes
As an example in the search for structural analogues,[4] synthetic metalloprophyrines
have been developed considering that different enzymes have in their active site ferric
hemin, the iron (III) protoporphyrin IX (Fig. 1a). These heme-enzymes are involved in
reactions such as dismutation of hydrogen peroxide (catalase), oxidation of substrates
using hydrogen peroxide (peroxidases), and insertion of an oxygen atom from mole-
cular oxygen, for instance, into one alkane[5] and for which the oxidation of methane to
methanol would be of paramount practical importance.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
371
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Another example in where the complex resembles structurally and functionally
the active site of the enzyme (galactose oxidase) is the mononuclear cooper complex
model given in Fig. 1b, which, as the galactose oxidase, contains a CuI/CuII redox
couple together with a semiquinone group in the ligand which mediates the electron
Figure 1.
(a) Iron (III) protoporphyrin IX; (b) a Cu2þ iminosemiquinone model of galactose oxi-
dase, with binding of primary alcohol substrate.
Corma
372
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
transfer. This enzyme-mimic is able to catalyze selectively the oxidation of benzylic or
aliphatic primary alcohols to aldehydes with O2 as oxidant.[6]
More examples of enzymatic reactions involving compounds that structurally mimic
active metal centers of enzymes can be found elsewhere.[7]
2.2.
Functional Analogues of Enzymes
The search for enzyme models that, while structurally different from the original,
follow a similar reaction scheme has been actively persuaded. For instance, the majority
of studies devoted to the new synthetic hemins are focused on the cytochrome P-450, and
use Fe(III) porphyrins and Mn(III) prophyrins as models. Thus, cytochrome P-450 has
been mimicked in order to prepare catalysts for alkane functionalization. The mechanism
through which P-450 acts as a selective oxidation catalyst is still under debate. However,
the most accepted mechanism involves, on one side, the active Fe oxidant site which
abstracts an H† radical from the alkane and, on the other side, the presence of a hydro-
phobic pocket formed by the protein mantle that optimizes the adsorption of the substrate
increasing the turnover numbers and, in some cases, the regioselectivity. Following this,
a functional mimic of cytochrome P-450 should display the following characteristics:
(a) alkane activation with O2 or peroxide; (b) preferential adsorption of apolar molecules;
(c) high activity, selectivity, and catalyst life. To achieve this, several generations of
homogeneous metalloporphyrines, as cytochrome P-450 models, have been used for
hydrocarbon oxidation. The ﬁrst generation was constituted by a synthetic metallopor-
phyrin [Fe(TPP)]Cl, and a single oxygen donor (Ph IO).[8,9] The main problem arising
with this system was the oxidative degradation of the prophyrin ring due to the strongly
oxidizing reaction media. A second generation was prepared by introducing electron-
withdrawing substituents at mesoaryl positions, which render more robust metal
complexes.[10] The introduction of electron-withdrawing atoms on b-pyrrole positions
of the second generation metalloporphyrins, produced the third generation catalysts
which were able to selectively oxidize alkanes.[11] More recently, an efﬁcient method
for the preparation of metalloporphyrins containing nitro substituents on b-pyrrole posi-
tions has been reported, which is able to give high yields in epoxidation and hydroxylation
of hydrocarbons.[12]
Metalloporphyrins as cytochrome P-450 models for hydrocarbons oxidation have
been immobilized on a series of supports. For instance, they have been supported by elec-
trostatic binding on ion exchange resins, resulting in efﬁcient catalysts for hydroxylation
of adamantanone and n-octane, as well as for epoxidation of (Z) cyclooctene.[13–15] Silica
gel has also been used to graft metalloporphyrins on the modiﬁed surface. Thus, the
surface of the silica can be pretreated with a group that allows the linkage of the
metalloprophyrin to the support by covalent and ionic bonds.[16,17] Hybrid materials of
metalloporphyrins associated to silica via a sol-gel process were pioneered by Battioni
et al.[18] who prepared tetrakis (pentaﬂuorophenyl) porphyrinato Fe(III) or Mn(III) cova-
lently bound to silica into a three dimensional network via a sol gel process.
A better site isolation and stabilization, together with shape selective and adsorption
steps which are necessary to achieve regioselective effects, can be done by encapsulating
the metalloporphyrin in zeolites. Nakamura et al.[19] encapsulated Fe(III) prophyrins in Y
zeolite obtaining an efﬁcient catalyst for oxidation of cyclohexane with H2O2. A very
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
373
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
interesting semi-inorganic mimic of cytochrome P-450 has been obtained by encapsula-
ting Fe phthalocyanines into different large pore zeolites such as FAU and EMT.[20,21]
In this case phthalocianines were selected because, being similar to porphyrines, they
are more stable to oxidation. These catalysts are effective for room temperature oxidation
of alkanes using organic peroxides. Moreover, through their immobilization bimolecular
reactions which produce ligand degradation and catalyst deactivation could be avoided
using zeolite encapsulation. The adsorption properties can be modiﬁed by changing the
polarity of the molecular sieve by means of the framework Si/Al ratio. Furthermore, by
controlling the dimensions of channels and cavities available for reactants, shape selective
effects can be achieved. For instance, during competitive oxidation experiments, hardly
any 2,3-diMe-C4 is oxidized in competition with 2-Me-C5 or 3-Me-C5, in spite the fact
that 2,3-diMe-C4 contains two highly reactive tertiary C-H bonds[22] (Fig. 2).
Adsorption selectivity effects to enhance regioselectivity can be achieved by means
of porphirins with increasing steric hindrance at the periphery of the macrocycle. For
instance, Suslick[23] has shown that by using 2,2-dimethylbutane as a substrate, the regio-
selectivity of the oxidation changes from 90% at the methylene carbon yielding 3,
3-dimethyl-2-butanol when using a nonhindered porphyrine, to a preferential oxidation
to the terminal methyl group giving 3,3-dimethyl-1-butanol as product with a deeply
pocketed 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(20,40,60-triphenylphenyl) porphyrine catalyst.
A very interesting example of functional enzyme-mimic (synzime) is the Mn(II)-
based superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimic.[24] In living systems the sustainability is not
achieved by a superclean chemistry that does not produce harmful subproducts, but by
a well equilibrated reaction network in where the system is able to control and limit the
concentration of potentially harmful molecules derived from our need to metabolize
energy stores. When the living system is not able to control some of those harmful pro-
ducts, then the disease appears. An interesting example is the production of superoxide
anions during oxygen metabolization. In a healthy individual, the radical concentration
is controlled by a series of Mn(II), and Cu/Zn based superoxide dismutase (SOD)
enzymes present in cells, in the plasma, and in extracellular spaces, respectively.
However, during reperfusion diseases, following acute myocardial infarct or stroke, an
overproduction of superoxide anion occurs. Under these circumstances, the naturally
occurring SOD enzymes are not able to cope with the excess of superoxide. A potential
Figure 2.
Reagent selectivity in oxidation of branched alkanes over a FePc-NaY cytochrome
P-450 (taken from Ref.[7]).
Corma
374
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
solution would be to externally supply additional amounts of SOD enzyme. However, this
can not be done in practice due mainly to lack of oral activity and inability to gain access to
the intracellular space of cells where superoxide is produced. Riley and Weiss, from Mon-
santo,[24,25] have developed “synzimes” that functionally mimic the superoxide dismutase
enzyme, by preparing a class of Mn(II)-complexes (see Fig. 3), based upon the
macrocycle.
1,4,7,10,13-pentaazacyclopentadecane, where R can be any number of deﬁned substi-
tuents with known stereochemistry.[24] These models show efﬁcacy in vitro and in vivo
models of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, vascular relaxation, and restenosis.
The authors conclude that these SOD mimics can be considered as catalytic drugs since
they do not involve a stoichiometric interaction with a biological target, such as a receptor,
but act as a catalyst by enhancing the rate of reduction of the superoxide without being
consumed.
Hydrolytic enzymes like proteases and lipases have been used at a large scale in the
detergent industry. However, their efﬁciency may be limited in some cases by the washing
conditions and the presence of other ingredients, such as bleaches and anionic detergents.
It is not then surprising that researchers have looked for oxidation catalysts that can mimic
Figure 3.
General formula for synzime superoxide dismutase (taken from Ref.[25]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
375
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
the active site of the oxidative enzyme. Following this, mimics containing an iron-heme
unit,[26] or manganese compounds containing 1,4,7-trimethyl-1,4,7-triazacyclononane
based (L0) ligands[27,28] have been used for dye bleaching.[29] In most of the above
examples the mimicking is referred to the function of the active site (i.e., the metal and
ligands). This is not surprising since very often, in catalysis, all the attention is paid to
the single active site without considering that the rate and the selectivity of the reaction
could be strongly enhanced by a further pre-activation of the molecule through the adsorp-
tion step and the stabilization of transition state by week molecular interactions. It is in this
activation-adsorption and transition state stabilization where the protein groups and the
more speciﬁc metal ligands in enzymes, can play a deﬁnitive role for enhancing activity,
regio, and enantioselectivities. There is not doubt that structures that can stabilize reaction
transition states will lower the activation energy and, consequently, will increase the rate
of reaction without the contribution of any speciﬁc catalytic active site. This is one
way how antibodies act for speciﬁc reactions and, when working in this way, they can
be considered as catalysts.
3.
CATALYTIC ANTIBODIES
In the last decade many types of organic reactions, from hydrolysis to redox and
pericyclic processes, have been catalyzed by monoclonal antibodies.[30] The fact that
antibodies can also catalyze “abiological” processes open new possibilities for organic
synthesis.[31]
When designing haptens that will induce antibody catalysis for a particular reaction,
two strategies can be followed.[32] In the ﬁrst one a compound, which mimics the geometry
and charge distribution of the reaction transition state as closely as possible, is used as the
hapten. A second strategy, named “bait and switch,” involves a compound that is not
necessarily a transition-state analogue, but can induce speciﬁc complementary aminoacid
residues capable of mechanistic interactions with the substrate.[33]
The molecular recognition achieved by antibodies can be useful for medical uses, one
example is their use for drug overdose treatment. For instance, in the case of cocaine
there is no antagonist able to block the blocker. Then, as an alternative to receptor-
based therapeutics, an antibody could be administrated that, by bounding the drug, will
form a stoichiometric complex that will deplete its concentration, in an analogous way,
as antibodies are being used therapeutically to treat poisoning by snake venoms and
other natural toxins. However, there is not doubt that a catalytic antibody, formed by an
analogous of the transition state for the hydrolysis of the benzoyl ester of cocaine, will
increase the rate of hydrolysis and, consequently, will promote the degradation of
cocaine into inactive products such as ecgonine methyl ester and benzoic acid.[34] This
has been achieved by Yang et al.[35,36] who have prepared transition state analogues
and, from them, catalytic antibodies. They have synthesized a highly-ﬁdel analogue
that differed from cocaine only by a phosphonate replacement of the acyl group and the
incorporation of an immunogenic conjugate (see Fig. 4), The most active catalytic
antibody increased the rate of the hydrolysis of cocaine to benzoyl ester by more
than four orders of magnitude with respect to the uncatalyzed reaction (Kcat/
Kuncat ¼ 25.3  104).
Corma
376
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Figure 4.
Anticocaine catalytic antibodies (taken from Ref.[35]).
Scheme 1.
Catalytic antibodies for the Claisen rearrangement of (2)-chorismate to prephenate
(taken from Ref.[38]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
377
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Despite the increase in the rate of hydrolysis introduced by the antibody its activity is
still much lower than that of the plasma enzyme butyrylcholinesterase which deactivates
cocaine in humans.[37] In another example, the rate for the Claisen rearrangement of
(2)-chorismate into prephenate was increased by 102–144 over the rate of the uncatalized
reaction, when using a catalytic antibody obtained from a transition state analogue
(see Scheme 1), while, on the other hand, the enzyme chorismate mutase increases the
rate by more than 106.[38] Haynes et al. showed that, while the catalytic mechanism was
the same in the case of the enzyme and the catalytic antibody (i.e., both catalyze the
reaction by stabilizing the transition state), that stabilization was larger in the case of
the enzyme. The authors associate the higher stabilization with the enzyme to a larger
number of hydrogen bonding interactions.
The concept of catalytic antibodies has the advantage that could be applied to
catalyze any reaction for which the structure of the transition state is known. There is,
on the other hand, a limitation since each catalytic antibody can only be applied to a
given speciﬁc reaction. Furthermore, the preparation of catalytic antibodies requires
biological machinery that produces the antibodies, which should be then isolated. This
last process in the preparation of catalytic antibodies could be overcome by imprinting
the analogue of the transition state into a solid matrix.
4.
IMPRINTED TRANSITION STATE ANALOGUES
The procedure involves complexation of organic or inorganic functional monomers
and subsequent removal of the transition state analogue (TSA), thus incorporating
molecule-speciﬁc binding sites in the gel. After removal, the TSA leaves its clue in
the solid and recognition will occur by a combination of reversible binding and shape
complementarily. By this method it is possible to produce, sometimes, materials with
rebinding afﬁnities and selectivities close to those observed for antibody-antigen
interactions.[39]
4.1.
Molecularly Imprinted Polymers
When using organic polymers for imprinting, the general mechanism for the for-
mation of speciﬁc binding sites in none covalently formed molecularly imprinted poly-
mers (MIPs), is presented in Fig. 5.[40]
In the scheme, pre-organization of functional monomers template, or the TSA mole-
cule, is followed by copolymerization with cross-linking monomers to form a polymer
network around the TSA molecule. After removal of the template, the cavities left are
complementary in shape and functionality to the TSA. It is apparent that while a reason-
able matching between the cavities and the shape of the transition state can be achieved
by this method, it will be difﬁcult to ﬁnd the adequate combination of functional groups
for establishing the interactions with the reaction transition state. This is one of the
reasons why the resulting polymers display only limited catalytic activity.[41]
Besides, there are difﬁculties associated with the multi-optimization of synthesis
variables such as: nature and, number of functional monomers, type of cross-linker, the
ratio of functional monomer to cross-linker, and the ratio of functional monomer to
Corma
378
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
template.[42,43] Nevertheless they can be helped by combinatorial methods or by a different
methodology based on one monomer molecularly imprinted polymers.[44] In any case a
notable difﬁculty with molecular imprinting is the low yield of high afﬁnity sites. In
other words, and as has been very well discussed by Davis,[45] the main limitations in
the synthesis of highly efﬁcient imprinted polymer catalysts is the catalyst-site hetero-
geneity. Indeed, only a small fraction of the total binding sites, have low binding constants
with high turnover frequencies.
Theoretical[46–50] as well as experimental work[51–54] for improving imprinting
have been published, showing improved catalytic performance from imprinting
procedures involving noncovalent bonds, with sufﬁciently high association constants
that afford complexes having a 1 : 1 ratio of template binding. In general this type
of association is due to highly directed multiple bonds between the polymer matrix
and the template. In some cases it was possible to achieve improved catalytic activity
for reactions such as dehydro-ﬂuorination,[55–57] hydrolysis[58,59] and Diels-Alder
reactions.[60]
Davis[61] has revised the work of Shokat et al.[55] and Beach and Shea[56] and Muller
et al.[57] on the dehydroﬂuorination reaction:
The relative rates and binding constants for the catalytic antibody and imprinted
polymer for the dehydroﬂuorination reaction are given in Table 1. As was pointed
out,[61] both the binding constant and the relative rate of reaction from the catalytic anti-
body are about two orders of magnitude different from the imprinted polymer, and the rate
increase was only twice with respect to the unoptimized one.
In the case of Diels-Alder type reactions, there are natural Diels-Alderases.[62,63]
There is a report on the preparation of a speciﬁc Diels-Alder catalyst by generation
Figure 5.
Outline of the traditional molecular imprinting process (taken from Ref.[40]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
379
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
of monoclonal antibodies from TSA that mimics the Diels-Alder transition structure given
below:
This catalyst gave a Lineweaver-Burk Vmax of 81 mM . min21.[60] On the other hand,
an imprinted acrylic resin using the same TSA gave a Vmax of 10 M . min21 which is
only eight times lower than the one reported for the monoclonal antibody-catalyzed
Diels-Alder reaction.[54]
4.2.
Imprinted Amorphous Oxides
Besides the limitations of MIP for controlling the binding site heterogeneity, other
factors that affect negatively their performance are: access of substrate molecules to
the site and limited durability in organic solvents or under severe catalytic conditions.
In order to solve the last two limitations, molecular imprinting can be carried out on
amorphous oxides, being silica is a preferred one. We advance that while amorphous
oxides can increase the stability of the ﬁnal catalyst, they still present problems to
achieve site homogeneity. Some reviews and speciﬁc contributions for molecular imprint-
ing on amorphous oxides and their applications as sensors, electronics separation, and
catalysis can be found.[45,61,64–80]
Table 1.
Comparison of catalytic antibody and Beach and Shea imprinted
polymer for the dehydroﬂuorination reaction (taken from Ref.[61]).
Catalytic system
Solvent
Relative
rate
(kcat/kuncat)
Binding
constant
(mM)
Catalytic antibody
Water
1485
0.182
Imprinted polymer
Benzene
3.5 (unoptimized)
27 (unoptimized)
7.5 (optimized)
Catalytic rate constant, kcat denotes rate constant with imprinted polymer
or antibody. Control rate constant, kuncat denotes background rate constant of
nonimprinted polymer or solution without antibody. Beach and Shea report two
different relative rate constants based on optimized and unoptimized reaction
conditions.
Corma
380
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
The ﬁrst molecular imprinting of an organic molecule in silica, which showed
molecular recognition for adsorption, was reported by Dickey in 1949.[81] It was 47
years later that Morihara et al.[82] used a silica containing Lewis acid sites (Al3þ),
imprinted with a TSA of the reaction given below:
The results showed an increase in reaction rate. However, it was not clear
how much of the relatively low enhancement achieved was due to the Al Lewis acid
sites or to the imprinting itself. Furthermore, the benzoic acid formed can be responsible
for autocatalysis. Morihara has further investigated his imprinting model (footprint
catalysis) and has claimed that imprinting silicas with templates of proper TSA could
provide catalytic footprints for reactions including: substrate–speciﬁc transalkylation,
Claisen-Schmidt
condensation,
enantioselective
transacylations,
enantioselective
racemization, and asymmetric reductions.[83] Others,[84] have generated chiral cavities
in amorphous silica that show some chiral selectivity. However, the effect is not large
enough for a deﬁnitive conclusion. Indeed, molecular recognition and catalysis in other
examples reported on imprinted silicas,[85,86] have been questioned.[87] In an speciﬁc
case,[88] it has been shown that when imprinting a TSA in silica for catalyzing the
lactone formation from hydroxyesters, although selective g- and d-lactone formation
was observed it was concluded that they can be obtained by the micropores of the
materials and not by the imprinting.
The difﬁculties associated with imprinted amorphous oxides, and more speciﬁcally
to silica, are derived from the heterogeneity of the sites, as well as from the “mobility”
of the gels upon calcinations that may disturb the imprinted shapes and terminal
groups. Finally, it has to also be taken into account the limitations of silica for produc-
ing the variety of binding groups required for TS activation. This problem has been
considered by Katz and Davis[76] who have succeed in carrying out the imprinting of
bulk amorphous silicas attaching functional organic groups to the pore walls in a con-
trolled fashion. Figure 6 shows the imprinted silicas with binding sites with one, two or
three propylamine groups covalently linked to the silicon atoms of the silicate. These
amino groups should attach to the reactants–TS and show activity and shape selectivity
for the base catalyzed Knovenagel condensation reaction of malonitrile with isophthal-
aldehyde. The two point material presented shape selective restriction for the addition
of a second malonitrile molecule. This example, while conceptually interesting, shows
the limitations associated to the accessibility of the active sites in the imprinted silica
(76 turnover number per amine group and hour versus 367 when using amino-propyl
groups on the surface of amorphous silica). Moreover, the shape selectivity may simply
be due to the presence of micropores in the synthesized silica and the location of amine
groups in micropores walls.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
381
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Figure 6. Imprinting silicas with propylamino groups to catalyze condensation reactions.
Corma
382
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
4.3.
Polymer–Metal Oxides
Besides imprinting in polymer or metal oxides, attempts have been made trying
to combine the beneﬁts of both type of supports for imprinting. Then a molecularly
imprinted
polymer
with
7-chloroethyl-theophylline
with
amino-propylsilanized
silica gel has been prepared. This MIP-Si was compared with a conventional MIP using
7-chloroethyl-theophyline and its structural analogs, and the former showed a much
higher binding speed and more binding capacity for 7-chloroethyl-theophylline with
amino-propylsilanized silica gel. In an analogous way, a silica gel-bound molecularly
imprinted polymer has shown activity and discrimination for selective recognition and
enrichment of b-lactam antibiotics.
In catalysis, the hybrid polymer silica imprinted materials have shown activity for
catalyzing the Diels-Alder cycloaddition of hexachlorocyclopentadiene and maleic acid.
In this case, the catalysts were prepared by molecular imprinting with template molecules
immobilized on silica particles.
5.
IMPRINTING CRYSTALLINE SILICAS
It has been said that for catalysts involving imprinted TSA, a decrease in the
activation energy is achieved by weak interactions between the TS and the groups at
the wall of the cavity. The enhancement of reaction rate in zeolites with respect to amor-
phous solids has also been associated with a stabilization of the reaction TS or reaction
intermediates within the zeolite cavities, owing to weak (hydrogen bonding) interactions
between such molecules and the zeolite framework oxygens. Indeed, in Fig. 7 we show the
stabilization of a tertbutylcation intermediate in two zeolite positions. In the ﬁrst position,
there are several interactions between the hydrogens of the molecule and the oxygens
of mordenite not directly bonded to the Al center, while in the second situation such
interactions do not take place. Calculations of the energy of the system were performed
by considering either the coulombic interactions (ONIOM) or the coulombic plus weak
interactions (DFT), and the results given in Table 2 show again the important stabilization
effect achieved by those weak interactions.
It appears then, that the well structured zeolite cavities could be ideal for stabilizing the
transition state, if a good matching between this and the shape of the cavity could be achieved.
Many zeolites are synthesized by using organic molecules as “templates.” Despite the
fact that the speciﬁcity between the organic and the zeolite is, generally, not enough
to claim a templating effect in the way that is used in biological terms,[89] there are never-
theless very important organic–inorganic interactions that allow the organic molecule to
direct the structure of the zeolite produced. Indeed, the Coulombic as well as the important
weak Van der Waals interactions between the organic and the framework oxygens are
responsible for the crystallization of a given structure.[90–93] Following this rational, it
could be concluded that a certain molecular recognition between the zeolite cavity and
a reaction transition state or a reaction intermediate analogous to the organic structure
directing agent may exist. An indication along these lines was a 10% enantiomeric
excess achieved with a Beta zeolite prepared with a chiral structure directing agent.[89]
Taking into account all the above, we thought that if a transition state analogue could
be used as a structure directing agent, the zeolite synthesized should recognize the
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
383
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Figure 7. Stabilization of tert-butyl cation in T1 and T4 sites of Mordenite as per DFT calculations.
Corma
384
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
shape of the transition state and an enhancement of the reaction rate should occur. To test
this hypothesis, we have selected an organic structure directing agent (OSD) prepared by a
Diels-Alder reaction, in the sense that for these reactions the structure of the product is
very close to the structure of the transition state:
With this OSDA the TIII free ITQ-7 zeolite[94] was prepared with very small crystallite
sizes (0.05 mM).[95]
After calcinations to remove the OSDA, a microporous material with no acid sites and
a very small number of internal defects was obtained, and this “imprinted” zeolite was
used to catalyze the following Diels-Alder reaction, in where the product resembles the
OSDA.
Table 2.
Relative energy of tert-butyl cation with
respect to adsorbed iso-butene (kcal/mol).
ONIOM
DFT
T1
17.2
9.1
T4
6.9
6.3
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
385
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
The reaction was carried out at 508C without catalyst, on the ITQ-7 zeolite described
above, as well as on Beta zeolite, ITQ-23[96] and the polymorph C of Beta (ITQ-17),[97] all
of them with the same composition as ITQ-7. Notice that we have selected Beta, and
specially its polymorph C, because of the close structural proximity of this last zeolite
with ITQ-7. From the results presented in Table 3, we can see an important increase in
the reaction rate in the case of ITQ-7 zeolite, as well as a tendency to increase the relative
rate when the zeolite structure becomes more similar to that of ITQ-7. It should be taken
into account that in the case of zeolites, and for products with the same or similar size as
the TSA, reactions may occur inside, but the products can be limited to diffuse outside of
the pores. This is the reason why in the present case we have prepared samples with very
small crystallites. In this case the “imprinted” large external surface can act as catalyst.
6.
COMBINING TS SHAPE RECOGNITION AND ACTIVE SITES
6.1.
Combining Imprinting of TSA and Catalytic Active Site
MIPs increase the rate of the reaction by stabilizing the transition state by weak inter-
actions. It appears that catalysis could be improved by combining a cavity with the shape
of the TSA and a speciﬁc active site (acid, base, redox) strategically located into that
cavity.[76,98] This was achieved by Polborn and Severin[99] during the reduction of the
carbonyl group in the reaction given below using a (n6–arene) Ru(A-B) catalyst. The
structure of the transition state was determined, and a TSA that includes the metal
complex was synthesized. Then after imprinting the TSA in a polymer, the TSA will be
eliminated but the binding groups will be left on the polymer within the cavity. This
should increase the homogeneity of the sites, facilitate and increase the number of inter-
actions between the TS and the imprinted cavity, and consequently increase the rate of the
reaction. Will come back to this point later.
Table 3.
Diels-Alder reaction on TSA “imprinted” zeolite.
Catalyst
Relative initial rate
(mol21. n21 g cat21)
Average crystallite
size (mm)
Blank (without zeolite)
1
—
ITQ-23
0.9
0.1
Beta
1.3
0.02
Polymorph C of beta
2.2
0.02
ITQ-7
6.6
0.05
Corma
386
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
6.2.
Shape Recognition and Active Sites in Zeolites
An attractive property of zeolites is the possibility of introducing catalytically active
sites in the framework. These sites will be exposed to the cavities, and if one could design
the cavity and to locate the active site into the desired framework position, it should be
possible to strongly increase catalyst activity and selectivity.
Besides acid and basic active sites, it is possible to introduce transition metal atoms in
framework positions. The ﬁrst successful example was the introduction of Ti into the sili-
calite structure by direct hydrothermal synthesis.[100] In the resultant product, Ti isolated
sites were in tetrahedral coordination, and could act as Lewis acid centers. Ti-silicalite
(TS-1) proved to be an excellent catalyst for the hydroxylation of benzene and phenol,
epoxidation of oleﬁns, oxidation of alkanes and alcohols, oxidation of amines and
sulphur containing organic compounds, and oxidation of ethers, among others, using
H2O2 as oxidant.[101–103] Ti-silicalite is an excellent oxidation catalyst, using H2O2 as
oxidant for molecules that can diffuse through the 10 member ring pores (0.55 nm diam-
eter) of the structure. Its success was due to the presence of tetrahedrally-isolated Ti sites,
together with the hydrophobic properties of the material that allows it to work in the
presence of water, something that is also of paramount importance for most enzyme
catalyzed processes. In order to process larger molecules, other Ti-zeolites with larger
pore diameters than silicalite have been synthesized. The most relevant among those
are
Ti-ITQ-7,[104,105]
Ti-Beta,[106]
Ti-MWW,[107,108]
and
delaminated[109]
MWW
containing Ti introduced either by direct[110] or postsynthesis[111] treatments. These are
active oxidation catalysts using either H2O2 or organic peroxides.[112]
Other transition metals, which have been successfully introduced in the zeolite
framework and are stable under reaction conditions, are Sn and Fe. Sn-Silicalite is
active for the hydroxylation of phenol in dilute H2O2, giving a ratio of catechol to
hydroquinone of 1.6. In this catalyst, the isolated Sn(IV) centers tend to coordinate
strongly with solvent molecules such as acetone and acetonitrile reducing the solvolysis
of Si-O-Sn bonds. Sn-ZSM-12 and Sn-Beta have also shown activity for the hydroxylation
of alkyl aromatics.[113,114] Of special relevance is the high activity and very high selecti-
vity shown by the directly synthesized Al free Sn-Beta zeolite for the Baeyer–Villiger
oxidation of cyclic ketones to lactones with diluted H2O2.[115] When a double bond is
present in the reactant cyclic ketone, a very high chemoselectivity for the Baeyer–Villiger
reaction is observed with Sn-Beta catalyst (Table 4). It is interesting to point out that the
chemoselectivity achieved with this catalyst for the production of lactones is similar to
the obtained by enzymes (see Table 5). The Baeyer–Villiger reaction mechanism for
Sn-Beta using H2O2 as oxidant has been seen[115] to proceed via a “criegee” adduct,
where H2O2 adds to the ketone activated by the Sn-Beta (Fig. 8).
The same catalyst is also very active and selective for oxidation of aldehydes to
esters,[116] and for Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley-Oppenauer reactions.[117,118] Again, in
the case of the Sn-Beta catalyst, the presence of tetrahedrally coordinated isolated Sn
Lewis acid sites, together with the hydrophobicity of the material, are the key issues to
achieve high activity and selectivity.
Iron incorporated in zeolites such as ZSM-5, ZSM-11, ZSM-12, ZSM-23, mordenite,
Beta, and EU-1 have shown to be active catalysts for the hydroxylation of benzene using
N2O as oxidant with selectivities between 90 and 97%.[119–121]
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
387
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
If we compare metal zeolite catalysts with oxidation enzymes, we can see some
similarities. In fact they both have isolated homogeneous oxidation sites, and in both
type of catalysts hydrophobic-hydrophilic type of interactions play an important role.
However, there is a major difference between enzymes and metal zeolites: The
enzymes such as cytochrome P-450 and nonheme, iron based oxidase are able to carry
out oxidations directly with O2. Certainly, the direct use of oxygen can be circumvent
by means of indirect routes such as the Mukaiyama oxidation[122,123] or by in situ pro-
duction of H2O2,[124–127] but nevertheless it is more challenging to perform the oxidations
directly with O2 and in a regioselective way. To do this, enzymes use the “pocket” directed
Table 5.
Selectivities for the Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of bicyclo[3.2.0]hept-2-en-6-one using
different oxidation systems.
Products selectivity/%
Reactant
conv./%
Sn-Beta
.95
100a
0
0
mCPBA
.95
29
34
37
enzymes20
100a
0
0
aAs 67 : 33 mixture of isomers.
Note: The reaction was carried out employing the amounts given in Table 1 in MTBE as solvent at
308C. The reaction time was 2 hr.
Table 4.
Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of dihydrocarvone using different oxidation systems.
Reactant
conv./%
Products selectivity/%
Oxidant
Sn-Beta/H2O2
68
100
0
0
mCPBA
85
11
71
18
Ti-beta/H2O2
46
0
79a
0
aRest missing to 100% were opening products of the epoxide.
Conditions: H2O2 (35 wt% H2O2 in H2O) was used as oxidant (ratio ketone/H2O2 1.0 and
1.5 mol . mol21, respectively), and methyl tert.butyl ether (MTBE) or dioxane as solvent
(ratio solvent/ketone of 3.0 and 0.10–0.15 g . g21, respectively). 1.5 wt% of Sn-Beta catalyst was
employed with respect to the total solution, which was equivalent to 0.66 mol% of Sn with
respect to the ketone. (Taken from Ref.[115].)
Corma
388
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
system, in which the reactant has to approach the active site in an unique way. Zeolites
with an adequate window-cavity (pocket) can approach this concept if adequate oxidation
sites can be located in the framework. A recent publication has showed that Co and
MnALPO-18 are regioselective oxidation catalysts for the oxidation of n-alkanes using
O2.[128] It is claimed that because of the end-on approach of the n-parafﬁn in ALPO-18,
owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, the C1 and C2 positions
are preferentially oxidized. When other structures with larger pore dimensions (ALPO-36
and ALPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions.
It becomes evident that by combining reactant and product and, specially, transition
state shape selectivity in zeolites, with the introduction of proper active sites into
the framework or located into the cavities, it should be possible to design catalysts
with selectivities approaching those of the imprinted polymers but with higher
activities and stabilities. Of special importance would be to achieve the synthesis of
zeolites and “structured amorphous prezeolites” using TSA as organic structure directing
agents.[129]
7.
HOMOGENEOUS AND HOMOGENEOUS-SUPPORTED
CATALYSTS
Since the discovery of catalysis by metal complexes,[130] great advances have
been achieved in the design of highly active and selective metal complex catalysts. As
Figure 8.
Catalytic cycle for the Baeyer–Villiger reaction with hydrogen peroxide catalyzed by
Sn-Beta. First the ketone is coordinated to the Lewis acid center and, thereby, the carbonyl group
activated. This was demonstrated by in situ IR spectroscopy. Then the hydrogen peroxide attacks
the more electrophilic carbonyl carbon atom. After the rearrangement step the lactone product is
replaced by a new substrate molecule. This mechanism is analogous to the one for the peracids
and has been proved by means of an 18O labelling experiment.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
389
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
it occurred with the active sites of the enzymes, the ligands coordinated to the metal size
not only modify and regulate the electronic properties of the metal, but also introduce geo-
metrical effects that may determine the way the reactant molecule is interacting.
These effects yields uniform, highly selective active sites, whose mechanism of action
and potential modiﬁcations can be more easily rationalized than in the case of metal
particles and metal single surfaces. The former present some similarities with metals in
zeolites from the homogeneity of the active sites and for potential geometrical effects.
Nevertheless, the electronic properties of the metal and the “directed” reactivity can be
better modulated in metal-complexes than in the case of zeolites. However, homogeneous
metal complexes in solution may suffer catalyst decomposition, resulting in loss of
catalytic activity. Taking this into account, it appears that one could improve the catalytic
performance of homogeneous metal complexes by attaching them on oxides or polymer
supports.
At this point one can use the solid as an “inert” support as it is conventionally
done, or can go further and convert the support into a catalytically active component
of the global [metal complex-solid] catalyst. From these premises, we will elaborate
below on the different roles the support can play in solid supported metal-complex catalysts:
1.
The solid acts as “inert” support.
2.
The solid stabilizes the metal-complex.
3.
The solid modiﬁes adsorption properties and concentrates reactants in the vicinity
of the metal-complex.
4.
The solid preactivates the reactants or helps to stabilize the transition state.
5.
Imprinting metal complexes on oxide surfaces.
7.1.
The Solid Acts as an “Inert” Support
Metal complexes are supported on polymers or inorganic carriers, such as high
surface area silica and mesoporous structured silicas,[131,132] by attaching them to the
surface by hydrogen bonding, ionic or covalent bonding, resulting in an heterogeneous
catalyst.[133–137] The main advantages of heterogenization are the easy separation and
recovery of the catalyst from the reaction mixture and the possibility of using continuous
ﬂow operations.
As one of the many possible examples of heterogenized homogeneous catalysts, we
will highlight Ta(¼CHCCCH3)3 (CH2C(CH3))3 grafted on partially dehydroxylated
silica,[138] where the supported Ta complexes were treated with ethanol to substitute
alkyl and alkylidene ligands with ethoxy ligands.
The epoxidation of 2-propene-1-ol and trans-2-hexene-1-ol was carried out with this
catalyst in the presence of diisopropyl tartrate. No leaching of Ta complexes was detected,
and good activities and enantioselectivities were obtained. It has to be pointed out that
the activity and selectivity obtained with this catalyst are similar to those obtained with
the Ti-tartrate complex reported by Finn and Sharpless.[139] The activity of the supported
Ta complex may be due to the presence of well dispersed monomeric Ta site on the
surface.
Another example where heterogeneization of a chiral metal complex was done by
coordination of the active metal complex to ligands that are anchored to a support is
Corma
390
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
the immobilization of copper bisoxazolines to silica and MCM-41. When supported on
silica[140] they gave the highest activity values ever reported for Friedel-Crafts enantio-
selective reactions using metallic complexes anchored on SiO2, with ee values up to
92%. To achieve this, the surface silanol groups that were not used for attaching the
complex were silylated to avoid interactions with the complex or substrates. In this
example, the combination of the anchoring procedure that minimizes the presence of
uncomplexed copper on the surface, the control of the length of the spacer, and the
removal of free OH groups on the surface was required for obtaining high activities and
selectivities. It is remarkable that lower ee values were obtained when using MCM-41
instead of amorphous silica. This was related with the higher amount of free OH groups
present on the surface of the solid.
Structured carbon nanotubes[141] and mesoporous inorganic solids have recently been
used for covalently anchoring metal complexes. In this regard, MCM-41 and related
mesoporous silicas have been widely used to prepare organic–inorganic hybrid cata-
lysts[142–149] since they combine a very large surface area, with a large pore size that
ensures easy accessibility of the active sites to substrates and reactants. Two different
methodologies have been developed with these materials in which the complex has
been anchored either through the metal[150–152] or through the ligand.[153–155]
In both cases the transition metal complex catalyst is in the channels and the linker
allows wide distribution conformations in which variable distances separate the
complex and the silica walls. More recently, a new family of periodic mesoporous
organosilicas (PMOs) in which the organic compound is forming part of the silica frame-
work rather than occupying the channel space has been reported.[156–159] The crucial
issue for the preparation of PMOs is the synthesis of a convenient organic precursor
that must contain two terminal alkoxy silane groups. With this type of structures it
would be a new and unique technique for heterogeneizing metal complexes by embedding
this into the PMO framework. This was recently achieved by preparing a PMO containing
a vanadyl Schiff base complex in the wall. This metal-complex was active for the cyano-
silylation of aldehydes[160–162] (see Fig. 9).
It is not uncommon to ﬁnd that metal complexes decrease their activity and enantios-
electivity when supported. Reasons for this can be inefﬁcient interfacial mass transfer
between the liquid phase and the solid, as well as interactions between the ligands of
the metal complex and the surface groups present on the solid. These problems could
be overcome by using a linker with sufﬁcient length and selecting the appropriated
solvent. The beneﬁt of increasing the length of the spacer group on the enantio-selectivity
of the anchored catalyst was shown with a chiral vanadyl Schiff base complex anchored
on silicas.[163] The asymmetric induction of the complex for the reaction of aldehyde
with trimethylsilyl cyanide was improved, until reaching practically the same values as
the free complex in solution, by decreasing the interaction with the solid when increasing
the spacer length to a chain with 11 carbon atoms, and reducing the presence of residual
silanol groups (Fig. 10).
7.2.
The Solid Stabilizes the Metal Complex
There are reactions for which the metal complex can be deactivated due to the
degradation of the ligands of a metal complex with the active site of a second metal
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
391
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Figure 9.
Molecular sieves with chiral walls (taken from Ref.[163]).
Corma
392
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
complex. This deactivation could be eliminated by anchoring the complex on a surface, or
by introducing this into the cavities of microporous molecular sieves.
In the case of the enzymes this type of deactivation is avoided owing to the prosthetic
groups that isolate the active sites. For instance in the case of Molybdo-enzymes, and more
speciﬁcally the DMSO reductase, the active metal site is Molybdenum that follows
the redox cycle presented in Fig. 11 where MoVI is reduced to MoV and this to MoVI.
Figure 10.
Inﬂuence of distance to the surface (chain length) (taken form Ref.[148]).
Figure 11.
Molybdoenzymes: DMSO reductase.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
393
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Owing to the prosthetic groups of the enzyme, dimers of MoV, cannot be formed avoiding
the catalytic deactivation of the enzyme. On the contrary, when some Mo metal complexes
such as [MoVIO2(O2CC(S)Ph2)2]22 are used to oxidize thiols with oxygen, MoVI is
reduced to MoIV, which reacts with MoVI giving MoV that, contrary to what occurs in
the enzyme, dimerizes and cannot be reoxidized to MoVI, resulting in the deactivation
of the catalyst.
½MoVIO2ðO2CCðSÞPh2Þ22 þ 2Bu SH $
! ½MoIVOðO2CCðSÞPh2Þ22 þ BuS  SBu
½MoVIO2ðO2CCðSÞPh2Þ22 þ ½MoIVOðO2CCðSÞPh2Þ22 þ 2Hþ
! 2½MoVOðO2CCðSÞPh2Þ2 H2O
Taking into account that the metal complex is anionic, it could be immobilized by
intercalation in a double layered anionic hydroxide such as a hydrotalcite[164] (Fig. 12).
In this case, by controlling the concentration of positive charge on the layers, it is
possible to control the distance between the intercalated metal complex molecules,
allowing the diffusion of reactants and avoiding the reaction of MoVI with MoIV and
the dimerization. When this was done no deactivation of the catalysts was observed and
high TON were achieved.[164–167]
7.3.
The Solid Modiﬁes Adsorption Properties and
Concentrates Reactants
There is an increasing interest in developing green processes in aqueous medium.[168]
Recently it has been reported that a Pd complex can be prepared that is able to effectively
catalyze: the Suzuki cross coupling of aryl chlorides in water, Ullman’s type Heck,
Sonogashira, and other related C–C forming reactions in organic solvents.[169–171]
However, when working in homogeneous aqueous phase the presence of tetrabutylammo-
nium bromide (TBAB) in amounts of 0.5 equivalents, is considered crucial. TBAB may
act as a surfactant to achieve a better mixture of the aqueous and organic phases. It
appears that by anchoring the Pd complex on a solid with the adequate polarity, one
could not only easily recover the catalyst but may control the adsorption of reactants
on the surface of the solid (i.e., in the vicinity of the metal complex), avoiding in this
way the use of TBAB. In order to achieve this result, the complex was supported on
one polar silica following the Scheme 2 outlined below.[172] The resultant heterogeneous
catalyst was active and selective and the presence of TBAB was not required for cataly-
zing efﬁciently the two phase reaction.
Besides acting as phase transfer catalyst, TBAB can play another role. Thus, it may
also occur that in the homogeneous phase the complex degradates and small particles
of metal palladium are formed that may be stabilized in small sizes by TBAB. If this
occurs, the anchoring of the Pd metal complex will slow down the decomposition of
the metal and will make unnecessary the use of TBAB.[173]
A very remarkable example where the support concentrates the reactants in the
vicinity of the metal complex was reported by Breslow and Zhang.[174] In that work a
mimic of the acetyl-colinesterase enzyme was prepared by anchoring a copper complex
Corma
394
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Figure 12.
Molybdoenzymes mimic catalysts (taken from Ref.[164]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
395
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
Scheme 2.
Anchoring Procedure of the oxime carbapalladacycle onto the mercaptopropyl
modiﬁed high surface silica.
Corma
396
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
on a cyclodextrine (see Fig. 13). This catalyst was able to hydrolyze the acetylcholine at
high rates by using the cyclodextrine to concentrate the reactants.
7.4.
The Solid Preactivates the Reactants or
Helps to Stabilize the Transition State
Hydrogenation of aromatics hydrocarbons with homogeneous organometallic
catalysts normally require hydrogen pressures in the order of 20 bars and/or high catalyst
to substrate ratios (1 : 500 metal atom-g/mol reactant).[175]
Furthermore, in many cases, the complex may decompose and metal particles are
formed in the very initial stages of the aromatic hydrogenation. It appears that the rate
of hydrogenation of aromatics by organometallic complexes should be achieved by
increasing the local concentration and the preactivation of the reactants in the vicinity
of the active sites. To do this cationic Rh(I) and Ni complexes with NN-bidentate
ligands (2-(tert-butyl and 2-(3-triethoxysilylpropyl-aminocarbonyl pyrrolidine) were
prepared, and anchored on H-, Na-, and Cs-Y zeolites containing mesoporous.
Interestingly, aromatic compounds could be hydrogenated with these catalysts under
mild reaction conditions (353 K, 6 bar, catalyst: substrate ¼ 1 : 12000).[176] However,
what is more important for the present discussion is that the activity of the metal
complex was increased from 4 to 10 times when incorporated into the zeolite. Further-
more, increasing the basicity of the zeolite from H- to Cs-Y, the rate of the reaction
continuously increases (Table 6).
Figure 13.
Cooper complex anchored on a cyclodextrine as a mimic of the acetylcholinesterase
enzyme (taken from Ref.[174]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
397
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
The positive inﬂuence of the zeolite support was explained by added concentration
and electronic effects. Indeed, H2 was adsorbed and polarized on the HY zeolite, and at
353 K and 100 Torr of constant pressure, 2  10215 mol of H2 per gram of zeolite were
adsorbed. This result demonstrate that in the case of the zeolite-based catalyst there is a
higher concentration of H2 in the vicinity of the active sites compared to that in the
liquid phase. It has been observed that, arene adsorption on the cations and on the
12-ring oxygens of the zeolite framework occurs,[177] increasing the concentration of
these reactants in the vicinity of the metal complex.
In addition to the above concentration effects, electronic interactions between the
aromatics and the zeolite may also preactivate the reactant. In fact, it has been presented
that when benzene is adsorbed on the faujasite, an increase in benzene-oxygen interaction
with framework basicity occurs.[177,178] Meanwhile, it has been shown[177] that when
going from Naþ to a Csþ faujasite the amount of benzene adsorbed on 12-member ring
(MR) windows increases, whereas, it decreases on the cations. If adsorption occurs on
the oxygens of the 12-MR windows, benzene could be considered as a slightly acidic
molecule and electron transfer from the zeolite framework to the aromatic ring may
take place to some extent, allowing the molecule to be activated for hydrogenation.
If this was so, one should see an increase in the rate of hydrogenation when increasing
the basicity of the zeolite from HY to CsY.
This was indeed observed[176] (see Table 6) and threefold increments in the rate of
hydrogenation was obtained when exchanging Hþ by Csþ.
In other cases, the support can play an active role in stabilizing the transition state in
a metal complex catalyzed reaction. One example is the hydrogenation of imines with
palladium and nickel salen complexes immobilized on mesoporous MCM-41 and on
well structured delaminated zeolites.[179]
Ir-xyliphos complexes have been shown to be very active and enantioselective
catalyst for the hydrogenation of imines.[180,181] However, when they were supported
on silica the activity of the Ir-xyliphos was lower by a factor of 2 to 5, as it occurs with
many other supported metal complexes. When supported on polystyrene the complex
was much less active than the homogeneous Ir-xyliphos catalyst and the immobilized
Table 6.
Turnover numbera for hydrogenation of arenes catalyzed by Rh- and Ni-complexes
(catalyst/substrate ¼ 1/12,000).
Compounds
1a
2a
HZeol-1b
HZeol-2b
NaZeol-1b
CsZeol-1b
Benzene
721 (5)b
177
1,587
1,200
2,282
2,894
Toluene
189 (4)b
106
344
347
451 (368)c
647 (532)c
a-Me-styrene
122d
225
106
515
994
Anisole
54 (.30)e
0
160
74
779
945
Ethylbenzoate
54 (.30)e
2hr–15%
302
186
492
560
aBased on corresponding cyclohexane monitored by GLC.
bEstimated induction period (hr) in brackets.
cCorresponding turnover number of Ni-catalysts in brackets.
dTurnovers for aromatic ring reduction obtained after total hydrogenation of double bond.
eDecomposition of catalyst before total reduction takes place.
Corma
398
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
system was susceptible to deactivation.[180] The authors showed that the decrease in
activity and catalyst life in the heterogeneized imine hydrogenation catalysts was
probably due to limited mass transport in the pores, and to the proximity of the Ir
complexes.
In the case of the Ni and Pd salen complexes, mass-transfer limitations of the hetero-
geneous catalysts was avoided by supporting the complexes on mesostructure silica
(MCM-41) and well-structured all-accessible delaminated pure silica zeolites.[109,182,183]
Thus, results presented in Table 7 show that the activity of the supported salen complexes
is even higher than the homogeneous counterpart.[179]
It has been shown, that the reaction rate for hydrogenation of imines in homogeneous
phase is higher in the presence of acetic acid,[180] and this has been attributed to the
stabilization of the transition state by the Hþ in the reaction media, as can be seen from
the Scheme 3.
Taking this into account, one could increase the reaction rate of the supported metal
complexes by introducing acid sites on the support. This was achieved by preparing
MCM-41 and a delaminated zeolite containing tetrahedrally coordinated Al within the
silica matrix, resulting in surface Bro
¨nsted acidity. When hydrogenation of the imines
was performed with Pd and Ni salen complexes grafted on the acidic supports an increase
in the rate of the reaction was obtained (see Table 8).
The TOFs of the supported metal complexes on the solid acids were as high
as 2  105 h21 for the hydrogenation of imines. Contrary to what was observed with
Ir-xyliphos, the stability of the catalyst towards recycling was good, and no decrease in
activity was observed after reusing four times.
This example indicates, that it should be possible to design multifunctional catalysts
by supporting metal complexes on solid supports containing other functional groups.
We will come back to this subject in the last part of the manuscript.
Table 7.
Hydrogenation of imines catalyzed by homogeneous and heterogenized Ni- and Pd-salen
complexesa derived from ligand 4b.
Catalyst
Imine I
Imine II
Pd
Ni
Pd
Ni
Homo
110
118
75
83
MCM-41
143
176.2
94
102
ITQ-2
150
180
122
135
ITQ-6
148
150
115
128
Silica
120
140
70
80
aTOF: h21  103; conditions, 4–5 atm., 408C, S/C molar ratio, 1,00,000/1.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
399
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
7.5.
Molecular Imprinting of Metal Complexes
We have seen before that artiﬁcial enzymatic materials synthesized by molecular
imprinting techniques provide promising molecular recognition catalysts with high
selectivity. It is clear that by using this concept one can, in addition to imprinted acid-base
catalysts,[76,85,86,98,184] to produce imprinted metal complexes.[99,137,185,186]
As pointed out by Tada and Iwasawa,[137] in most cases of metal complex imprinting,
ligands of the complexes are used as template molecules, which aim to create cavities
near the metal site. The authors indicate that molecular imprinting of metal complexes
can produce shape selective space on the metal site, and this can be useful for molecular
recognition and catalysis.[187–196] A further step will be to imprint the solid with an
organometallic transition state analogue. A nice example of molecularly imprinting a
Scheme 3.
Catalytic hydrogenation of imines in the presence of acetic acid (taken from Ref.[179]).
Table 8.
Inﬂuence of the acidity of the supports on the activity of
catalysts 4bNi in hydrogenation of imines.a
Catalyst
Si/Al
Imine I
Imine II
MCM-41
1
176
102
MCM-41
93
228
124
ITQ-2
1
180
135
ITQ-2
25
211
164
ITQ-6
1
150
128
ITQ-6
30
194
156
aTOF: h21  103; conditions, 4–5 atm., 408C, S/C molar ratio,
1,00,000/1.
Corma
400
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
polymer with an organometallic transition state analogue has been carried out by Polborn
and Severin,[99] and was partially described in Section 6.1. Their strategy for using the
TSA given in Scheme 4[99] for the generation of an immobilized catalyst with a form-
selective cavity in proximity to the catalytic center is summarized in Scheme 5.[99]
In Scheme 5, complex 2 is copolymerized with ethylene glycol dimethacrylate in the
presence
of
a
porogen
(chloroform)
to
give
the
highly
cross-linked
porous
polymer 3. Finally, the phosphinate ligand was selectively cleaved off using a solution
of BnNEt3Cl in methanol to give polymer 4 containing a ruthenium chloro complex.
When the catalytic activity of the imprinted complex 1 and the imprinted TSA2,
were tested, the initial turnover frequency of the molecularly imprinted polymer using
the TSA was between 3 and 4 times more active than the polymer imprinted just
with the metal complex 1. Therefore, we can conclude that while imprinting of metal
complexes can produce active and selective catalysts, better results are obtained if the
imprinting of the organometallic with the TSA is carried out.
Molecular imprinting of metal complexes on oxide surfaces was pioneered
by Ywasawa who succeeded in preparing imprinted Rh complexes on silica surfaces for
catalytic shape-selective hydrogenation of simple alkenes without any functional
group.[66,195,196] More information on this subject can be found in a recent review.[137]
In conclusion, we have presented that attaching metal complexes on solid surfaces
is not only one way of heterogeneizing homogeneous catalysts, but can be used to
enhance activity, selectivity, and perhaps enantioselectivity by proper selection and
modiﬁcation of the support. Under those circumstances the support can be an active
part of the reaction by stabilizing the metal-complex, concentrating the reactants, or
even stabilizing transition states. A further step into this stabilization effect could be
achieved by molecular imprinting of metal complex TSA.
Scheme 4.
Transfer hydrogenation of aromatic ketones catalyzed by ruthenium half-sandwich
complexes (A-B represents an anionic chelate ligand). The proposed transition structure A is
mimicked by the phosphinato complex B.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
401
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
8.
DESIGN OF MULTISITE CATALYSTS: CATALYZING
CASCADE REACTIONS
In previous sections we have seen that catalysis researchers now have many possibi-
lities for introducing various functionalities in a single catalyst. For instance they can
introduce on the same support enzymes, mimics of enzymes, imprinted TSA, metal
complexes, and imprinted metal complex-TSA, acid, base and redox sites. With this
one should be able to do multistep cascade type reactions, if there is a common
window of reaction conditions. Let’s present some examples which show that this type
of multisite catalysts may open future possibilities.
Bifunctional acid and base catalysts were prepared by immobilizing naﬁon acid
resins with silica where basic amines were also immobilized by co-condensation.[197]
This bifunctional catalyst was used to perform sequential acid-base reactions in a one
pot reaction system:
Scheme 5.
Reagents and conditions: i, AgO2PPh2, Ch2Cl2, room temperature 96h; ii, EGDMA,
CHCl3 (Ru : CHCl3 : EGDMA¼1 : 100 : 99), V-70 (1.5%), 358C, 20h; then 658C, 4h; iii, [BnNEt3]
Cl in MeOH (0.1 M).
Corma
402
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
There are examples that demonstrate the potential of a multicatalytic approach using
both bio- and chemo-catalysts, based on the principle of metabolic pathways in vitro,[198]
for reducing the amount of reagents (waste) and recovery steps (energy).[199] Schoevaart
and Kieboom[200] have carried out the enzymatic oxidation of D-galactose to its aldehyde,
followed by amination and rearrangement reactions with amines, in a study of its potential
use as a cross-linking agent for proteins. In a more recent work, the same authors[201]
have prepared 4-deoxy-D-glucose derivatives from D-galactose by the combined use of
three different types of catalysts in a row, in one pot, and without any intermediate
work-up procedure. The three catalysts used were D-galactose oxidase enzyme, the
homogeneous catalyst L-proline, and a heterogeneous palladium metal catalyst, for
carrying out in water, the consecutive oxygenation dehydration and hydrogenation,
respectively (see Scheme 6).
The use of water as reaction media was beneﬁcial for combining enzyme, homo-
geneous, and heterogeneous chemo catalysts, since it assures the compatibility of bio
and chemo-catalysts. For catalyst recovering it should be ideal to support the different
functions on a compatible solid.
Multifunctional catalysts for multistep-cascade reactions have been commercially
applied by DSM for the preparation of an enantiomerically enriched ester.[202] In the
reaction, a mixture of the enantiomers of the corresponding secondary alcohol is
subjected, in the presence of an acyl donor, to an enantioselective conversion in the
presence of a racemization catalyst upon which the ester is formed and an acyl donor
residue is obtained, which is irreversibly removed from the phase in which the enantio-
selective conversion takes place. Two catalytic functions are used simultaneously for
performing the reaction: an enzyme (NOVOZymw 435) for the enantioselective con-
version, and a transition metal Ru or Ir complex[203] for performing the racemization
Scheme 6.
One-pot, three step synthesis of a deoxy sugar (taken from Ref.[201]).
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
403
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
reaction (see Scheme 7), yields higher than 90% with ee of 99% can be obtained. This is
another interesting example in where both, the enzyme and the metal complex, could be
supported on a solid, with the corresponding advantage of catalyst recovery.
One pot cascade reactions can also involve various enzyme catalysts. In an interesting
work, Schoevaart et al.[204] have reported on the successful application of a one-pot
procedure, comprising a cascade of four enzymatic steps, for the synthesis of carbo-
hydrates from glycerol and pyrophosphate. The authors have achieved this by means of
a phosphatase as phosphorylation catalyst, with in situ oxidation to dihydroxyacetone
phosphate and subsequent aldol condensation and dephosphorylation (see Scheme 8).
Scheme 7.
Chemoenzymatic DKR of sec-alcohols (taken from Ref.[202]).
Scheme 8.
In situ DHAP preparation and subsequent aldol reaction with butanal and dephosphoryl-
ation constructs a four-step one-pot reaction leading to carbohydrates directly from glycerol.
Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation is carried out at pH 4.0, the remainder at pH 7.5 (taken
from Ref.[204]).
Corma
404
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
9.
CONCLUSIONS
Concepts derived from bio-inspiration and single site metal complex catalyst
can improve the design of heterogeneous catalysts. Solid materials can help to achieve
robust predesigned shape selective catalysts with characteristics of enzymes and anti-
bodies. Solids can also help to stabilize enzymes and metal complexes, while improving
the reaction rate by increasing the concentration of reactants in their vicinity or by
stabilizing transition states or intermediate products. Finally, enzymatic, homogeneous,
and heterogeneous catalysts converge all together in a new type of multifunctional
catalysts that can perform “one-pot” cascade reactions.
These catalysts should open possibilities for new processes in where waste production
and energy consumption will be minimized. It appears to us that boundaries between enzy-
matic, homogeneous, and heterogeneous catalysis are (or at least should be) disappearing
and this cross fertilization will only report beneﬁts for the ﬁeld of catalysis.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors thanks Comisio
´n Interministerial de Ciencia y Tecnologı
´a (CICYT)
(Project MAT 2003-07945-C02-01) for ﬁnancial support.
REFERENCES
1. Gimon-Kinsel, M.E.; Jimenez, V.L.; Washmon, L.; Balkus, K.J. Mesoporous mole-
cular sieve immobilized enzymes. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1998, 117, 373–380.
2. Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Jorda
´, J.L.; Rey, F.; Fernandez-Lafuente, R.; Guisan, J.M.;
Matero, C. Electrostatic and covalent inmobilisation of enzymes on ITQ-6 delami-
nated zeolitic materials 2001, 419–420.
3. Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Rey, F. Delaminated zeolites: An efﬁcient support for
enzymes. Adv. Mater. 2002, 14, 71–74.
4. Vinhado, F.S.; Martins, P.R.; Iamamoto, Y. Metalloporphyrins as efﬁcient models of
heme-enzymes in oxidation reactions. Current Topics in Catal. 2002, 3, 199–213.
5. Kadish, K.M.; Smith, K.M.; Guilard, R. Biochemistry and Binding: Activation of
Small Molecules. The Prophyrine Handbook; Academic Press: San Diego, 2000;
Vol. 4, 345.
6. Chaudhuri, P.; Hess, M.; Weyhermu
¨ller, T.; Wieghardt, K. Aerobic oxidation of
primary alcohols by a new mononuclear CuII-radical catalyst. Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 1999, 38 (8), 1095–1098.
7. De Vos, D.E.; Sels, B.F.; Jacobs, P.A. Heterogeneous enzyme mimics based on
zeolites and layered hydroxides. Cattech. 2002, 6 (1), 14–29.
8. Groves, J.T.; Nemo, T.E.; Meyers, R.S. Hydroxylation and epoxidation catalyzed by
iron-porphine complexes. Oxygen transfer from iodosylbenzene. J. Amer. Chem.
Soc. 1979, 101 (4), 1032–1033.
9. Groves, J.T.; Haushalter, R.C.; Nakamura, M.; Nemo, T.E.; Evans, B.J. High-valent
iron-porphyrin complexes related to peroxidase and cytochrome P-450. J. Amer.
Chem. Soc. 1981, 103 (10), 2884–2886.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
405
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
10. Meunier, B. Metalloporphyrins as versatile catalysts for oxidation reactions and
oxidative DNA cleavage. Chem. Rev. 1992, 92 (6), 1411–1456.
11. Ellis, P.E.; Lyons, J.E. Selective air oxidation of light alkanes catalyzed by activated
metalloporphyrins—The search for a suprabiotic system. Coord. Chem. Rev. 1990,
105, 181–193.
12. Bartoli, J.F.; Barch, K.L.; Palacio, M.; Battioni, P.; Mansuy, D. Iron polynitro-
porphyrins bearing up to eight b-nitro groups as interesting new catalysts for
H2O2-dependent hydrocarbon oxidation: unusual regioselectivity in hydroxylation
of alkoxybenzenes. Chem. Commun. 2001, (18), 1718–1719.
13. Campestrini, S.; Meunier, B. Oleﬁn epoxidation and alkane hydroxylation catalyzed
by robust sulfonated manganese and iron porphyrins supported on cationic
ion-exchange resins. Inorg. Chem. 1992, 31 (11), 1999–2006.
14. Leanord, D.R.; Smith, J.R.L. Model systems for cytochrome P450 dependent mono-
oxygenases. Part 8. A study of the epoxidation of (Z)-cyclooctene by iodosylbenzene
catalyzed by cationic iron(III) tetra(N-methylpyridyl)porphyrins adsorbed on
Dowex MSC1. J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 1991, 2, 25–30.
15. Sacco, H.C.; Iamamoto, Y.; Smith, J.R.L. Alkene epoxidation with iodosylbenzene
catalyzed by polyionic manganese porphyrins electrostatically bound to counter-
charged supports. J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 2001, 2, 181–190.
16. Cooke, P.R.; Smith, J.R.L. Alkene epoxidation catalyzed by ligand-bound supported
metalloporphyrins. Tetrahedron Lett. 1992, 33 (19), 2737–2740.
17. Iamamoto, Y.; Prado, C.M.C.; Sacco, H.C.; Baffa, O.; Nascimento, O.R. Study of the
catalytical intermediates of metalloporphyrins supported on imidazole propyl gel.
J. Mol. Catal. A. Chem. 1997, 117 (1–3), 259–271.
18. Battioni, P.; Cardin, E.; Louloudi, M.; Scho
¨llhorn, B.; Spyroulias, G.A.; Mansuy, D.;
Traylor, T.G. Metalloporphyrinosilicas: A new class of hybrid organic–inorganic
materials acting as selective biomimetic oxidation catalysts. Chem. Commun.
1996, (17), 2037–2038.
19. Nakamura, M.; Tatsumi, T.; Tominaga, H. Synthesis and catalytic capability of
zeolite-encapsulated iron and manganese tetramethylporphine complexes. Bull.
Chem. Soc. Jpn 1990, 63 (11), 3334–3336.
20. Parton, R.F.; Uytterhoeven, L.; Jacobs, P.A. Iron-phthalocyanines encaged in zeolite
Y and VPI-5 molecular sieves as catalysts for the oxyfunctionalization of n-alkanes.
Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 59, 395–403.
21. Parton,
R.F.;
Vankelecom,
I.F.J.;
Bezoukahnova,
C.P.;
Casselman,
M.;
Uytterhoeven, J.; Jacobs, P.A. An efﬁcient mimic of cytochrome P-450 from a
zeolite-encaged iron complex in a polymer membrane. Nature 1994, 370 (6490),
541–544.
22. Parton, R.F.; Bezoukhanova, C.P.; Grobet, J.; Grobet, P.J.; Jacobs, P.A. Oxidation of
cyclohexane using FePcY-zeozymes occluded in polydimethylsiloxane membranes.
J. Catal. 1996, 163 (2), 457–464.
23. Suslick, K.S. Activation and Functionalization of Alkanes; Hill, C.C., Ed.; Wiley;
1989; 219–241.
24. Riley, D.P.; Weis, R.H. Manganese macrocyclic ligand complexes as mimics of
superoxide dismutase. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116 (1), 387–388.
Corma
406
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
25. Riley, D.P.; Weis, R.H. Rational design of synthetic enzymes and their potential
utility as human pharmaceuticals: Development of manganese(II)-based superoxide
dismutase mimics. Cattech. 1997, 1 (1), 41–49.
26. Labeque, R.; Johnston, J.P. Dye-transfer inhibiting compositions containing metallo
bleaching catalysts for laundry detergents. PCT Int. Appl. WO9531526, 1995.
27. Hage, R.; Iburg, J.E.; Kerschner, J.; Koek, J.H.; Lampers, E.L.M.; Martens, R.J.;
Racherla, U.S.; Russell, S.W.; Swarthhoff, T.; Van Uliet, R.M.P.; Warnaar, J.B.;
Van der Wolf, L.; Krijnen, B. Efﬁcient manganese catalysts for low-temperature
bleaching. Nature 1994, 369 (6482), 637–639.
28. Wieghardt, K.; Bossek, U.; Nuber, B.; Weiss, J.; Bonvoisin, J.; Corbella, M.;
Vitols, S.E.; Girerd, J.J. Synthesis, crystal structures, reactivity, and magnetochemistry
of a series of binuclear complexes of manganese(II), -(III), and -(IV) of biological
relevance. The crystal structure of [L0MnIV(m-O)3MnIVL0](PF6)2.H2O containing
an unprecedented short Mn. . .Mn distance of 2.296. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1988,
110 (22), 7398–7441.
29. Hage, R.; Egmon, M. Applications of enzymes and biomimetic catalysts in
detergents. Cattech. 1998, 2 (1), 33–41.
30. Schultz, P.G.; Lerner, R.A. From molecular diversity to catalysis: Lessons from the
immune system. Science 1995, 269, 1835–1842.
31. Lerner, S.J.; Benkovic, P.G.; Schultz, P.G. At the crossroads of chemistry and
immunology: Catalytic antibodies. Science 1991, 252, 659–667.
32. Lavey, B.J.; Janda, K.D. Catalytic antibody mediated hydrolysis of paraoxon. J. Org.
Chem. Soc. 1996, 61 (21), 7633–7636.
33. Janda, K.D.; Weinhouse, M.I.; Schloeder, D.M.; Lerner, R.A.; Benkovic, S.J. Bait
and switch strategy for obtaining catalytic antibodies with acyl-transfer capabilities.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112 (3), 1274–1275.
34. Misra, A.L.; Nayak, P.K.; Bloch, R.; Mule, S.J. Estimation and disposition of
benzoylecgonine-3H
and
pharmacological
activity
of
cocaine
metabolites.
J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 1975, 27 (10), 784–786.
35. Yang, G.; Chun, J.; Arakawa-Uramoto, H.; Wang, X.; Gawinowicz, M.A.; Zhao, K.;
Landry, D.W. Anti-cocaine catalytic antibodies: A synthetic approach to improved
antibody diversity. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 5881–5890.
36. Landry, D.W.; Zhao, K.; Yang, G.X.Q.; Glickman, M.; Georgiadis, T.M. Antibody-
catalyzed degradation of cocaine. Science 1993, 259, 1899–1901.
37. Gatley, S.J. Activities of the enantiomers of cocaine and some related compounds as
substrates and inhibitors of plasma butyrylcholinesterase. Biochem. Pharmacol.
1991, 41, 1249–1254.
38. Haynes, M.R.; Stura, E.A.; Hilvert, D.; Wilson, I.A. Routes to catalysis: Structure of
a catalytic antibody and comparison with its natural counterpart. Science 1994, 263,
646–652.
39. Sellergren, B. Noncovalent molecular imprinting: Antibody-like molecular recog-
nition in polymeric network materials. TrAC. Trenes. Anal. Chem. 1997, 16 (6),
310–320.
40. Sibrian-Vaquez, M.; Spivak, D.A. Molecular imprinting made easy. J. Amer. Chem.
Soc. 2004, 126, 7827–7833.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
407
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
41. Ohkubo, K.; Funakoshi, Y.; Sagawa, T. Catalytic activity of a novel water-soluble
crosslinked polymer imprinted by a transition-state analog for the stereoselective
hydrolysis of enantiomeric amino acid esters. Polymer 1996, 37 (17), 3993–3995.
42. Andersson, H.S.; Nicholls, I.A. Spectroscopic evaluation of molecular imprinting
polymerization systems. Bioorg. Chem. 1997, 25, 203–211.
43. Andersson, H.S.; Karlsson, J.C.; Piletsky, S.A.; Koch-Schmidt, A.C.; Mosbach, K.;
Nicholls, I.A. Study of the nature of recognition in molecularly imprinted polymers
II. Inﬂuence of monomer-template ratio and sample load on retention and selectivity.
J. Chromatogr. A 1999, 848 (1 þ 2), 39–49.
44. Sibrian-Vazquez, M.; Spivak, D.A. Enhanced enantioselectivity of molecularly
imprinted polymers formulated with novel cross-linking monomers. J. Amer.
Chem. Soc. Macromolecules 2003, 36 (14), 5105–5113.
45. Davis, M.E.; Katz, A.; Ahmad, W.R. Rational catalyst design via imprinted
nanostructured materials. Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 1820–1839.
46. Srebnik, S. Theoretical investigation of the imprinting efﬁciency of molecularly
imprinted polymers. Chem. Mater. 2004, 16 (5), 883–888.
47. Nicholls, I.A.; Adbo, K.; Andersson, H.S.; Andersson, P.O.; Ankarloo, J.; Hedin-
Dahlstrom, J.; Jokela, P.; Karlsson, J.G.; Olofsson, L.; Rosengren, J.; Sorba
´is, S.;
Svenson, J.; Wikman, S. Can we rationally design molecularly imprinted polymers?
Anal. Chim. Acta 2001, 435 (1), 9–18.
48. Lu, Y.F.; Cao, G.Z.; Kale, R.P.; Prakabar, S.; Lopez, G.P.; Brinker, C.J. Microporous
silica prepared by organic templating: Relationship between the molecular template
and pore structure. Chem. Mater. 1999, 11, 1223–1229.
49. Srebnik, S.; Lev, O.; Avnir, D. Pore size distribution induced by microphase
separation: Effect of the leaving group during polycondensation. Chem. Mater.
2001, 13, 811–816.
50. Srebnik, S.; Lev, O. Toward establishing criteria for polymer imprinting using
mean-ﬁeld theory. J. Chem. Phys. 2002, 116, 10967–10972.
51. Wulff, G.; Gross, T.; Shonfeld, R.; Shrader, T.; Kirsten, C. Molecular and Ionic
Recognition with Imprinted Polymers. Proceeding of the ACS Symposium. 703;
ACS: Washington D.C., 1998, 10.
52. Shi, H.; Tsai, W.; Garrison, M.D.; Ferrari, S.; Ratner, B.D. Template-imprinted
nanostructured surfaces for protein recognition. Nature 1999, 398, 594–597.
53. Haupt, K.; Mosbach, K. Molecularly imprinted polymers and their use in biomimetic
sensors. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100 (7), 2495–2504.
54. Busi, D.; Basosi, R.; Ponticelli, F.; Olivucci, M. An innovative approach to the
design of plastic antibodies: Molecular imprinting via a non-polar transition state
analogue. J. Mol. Catal. A 2004, 217, 31–36.
55. Shokat, K.M.; Leumann, C.J.; Sugasawa, R.; Schulz, P.G. A new strategy for the
generation of catalytic antibodies. Nature 1989, 338, 269–271.
56. Beach, J.V.; Shea, K.J. Designed catalysts. A synthetic network polymer that
catalyzes
the
dehydroﬂuorination
of
4-ﬂuoro-4-(p-nitrophenyl)butan-2-one.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 379–380.
57. Muller, R.; Andersson, L.; Mosback, K. Molecularly imprinted polymers facilitating
a b-elimination reaction. Makromol. Chem. Rapid Commun. 1993, 14, 637–641.
58. Sellergren, B.; Karmalkar, R.N.; Shea, K.J. Enantioselective ester hydrolysis
catalyzed by imprinted polymers. 2. J. Org. Chem. 2000, 65 (13), 4009–4027.
Corma
408
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
59. Strikovsky, A.G.; Kasper, D.; Grun, M.; Green, B.S.; Hradil, M.; Wulff, G. Catalytic
molecularly imprinted polymers using conventional bulk polymerization or
suspension polymerization: Selective hydrolysis of diphenyl carbonate and diphenyl
carbamate. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122 (26), 6295–6296.
60. Braisted, A.C.; Schultz, P.G. An antibody-catalyzed bimolecular Diels-Alder
reaction. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112, 7430–7431.
61. Davis, M.E. Catalytic materials via molecular imprinting. Cattech 1997, 1 (1),
19–26.
62. Pohnert, G. Macrophomate synthase: The ﬁrst structure of a natural Diels-Alderase.
Chem. Biochem. 2003, 4, 713–715.
63. Mielcarek, M.; Barciszewska, M.Z.; Salanski, P.; Stobiecki, M.; Jurczak, J.;
Barciszewski, J. Native transfer RNA catalyzes Diels-Alder reaction. Biochem.
Biophys. Res. Commun. 2002, 294, 145–148.
64. Sasaki, D.Y. Molecular imprinting approaches using inorganic matrices. Tech. Instr.
Anal. Chem. 2001, 23, 213–244.
65. Di Cesare, J.C.; Parker, J.; Horne, S.N.; Kita, J.; Earni, R. In Developing nerve agent
sensors using combinatorial techniques. Ch. Peeples Mater. Res. Soc. Symposium
Proced., 2003, Vol. 787, 17.
66. Tada, M.; Sasaki, T.; Iwasawa, Y. Design of a novel molecular-imprinted Rh-amine
complex on SiO2 and its shape-selective catalysis for a-methylstyrene hydrogen-
ation. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 2918–2930.
67. Marx, S.; Zaltsman, A. Molecular imprinting of sol gel polymers for the detection of
paraoxon in water. Inter. J. of Envir. Analytical Chem. 2003, 83, 671–680.
68. Hishiya, T.; Akiyama, T.; Asanuma, H.; Komiyama, M. Molecular imprinting
of cyclodextrins leading to synthetic antibodies. J. of Inclusion Phenomena and
Macrocycle Chemistry 2002, 44, 365–367.
69. Chen, Y.; Ohlberg, D.A.A.; Li, X.; Stewart, D.R.; Stanley, W.R.; Jeppsen, J.O.;
Nielsen, K.A.; Stoddart, J.F.; Olynick, D.L.; Anderson, E. Nanoscale molecular-
switch devices fabricated by imprint lithography. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2003, 82,
1610–1612.
70. Leung, M.K.P.; Chow, Ch.F.; Lam, M.H.W. A sol-gel derived molecular imprinted
luminescent PET sensing material for 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. J. Mater.
Chem. 2001, 11, 2985–2991.
71. Markowitz, M.A.; Kust, P.R.; Klaehn, J.; Deng, G.; Gaber, B.P. Surface-imprinted
silica particles: The effects of added organosilanes on catalytic activity. Analytica
Chimica Acta 2001, 435, 177–185.
72. Andersson, H.S.; Nicholls, I.A. A historical perspective of the development of
molecular imprinting. Tech. Instr. Anal. Chem. 2001, 23, 1–19.
73. Markowitz, M.A.; Kust, P.R.; Deng, G.; Schoen, P.E.; Dordick, J.S.; Clark, D.S.;
Gaber, B.P. Catalytic silica particles via template-directed molecular imprinting.
Langmuir 2000, 16, 1759–1765.
74. Kodakari, N.; Tomita, K.; Iwata, K.; Katada, N.; Niwa, M. Molecular sieving silica
overlayer on g-alumina: The structure and acidity controlled by the template
molecule. Langmuir 1998, 14, 4623–4629.
75. Pinel, C.; Loisil, P.; Gallezot, P. Preparation and utilization of molecularly imprinted
silicas. Adv. Mater. 1997, 9, 582–585.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
409
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
76. Katz, A.; Davis, M.E. Molecular imprinting of bulk, microporous silica. Nature
2000, 403, 286–289.
77. D’Souza, S.M.; Alexander, C.; Carr, S.W.; Waller, A.M.; Whitcombe, M.J.;
Vulfson, E.N. Directed nucleation of calcite at a crystal-imprinted polymer
surface. Nature 1999, 398, 312–316.
78. Hirayama, K.; Burow, M.; Morikawa, Y.; Minoura, N. Synthesis of polymer-coated
silica particles with speciﬁc recognition sites for glucose oxidase by the molecular
imprinting technique. Chem. Lett. 1998, 8, 731–732.
79. Visnjevski, A.; Yilmaz, E.; Bruggemann, O. Catalyzing a cycloaddition with
molecularly imprinted polymers obtained via immobilized templates. Appl. Catal.
A: General 2004, 260, 169–174.
80. Gong, X.; Liu, J.; Samuels, W.D. Molecular recognition of organic compounds by
imprinted silica. MRS Symp. Proc. 2000, 604, 311–316.
81. Dickey, F.H. Preparation of speciﬁc adsorbents. Proceedings National Academy of
Science of the USA, 1949, 35, 227–229.
82. Morihara, K.; Kurihara, S.; Suzuki, J. Footprint catalysis. I. A new method for
designing tailor-made catalysts with substrate speciﬁcity: Silica (alumina) catalysts
for butanolysis of benzoic anhydride. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn 1988, 61, 3991–3998.
83. Morihara, K. Footprint catalysis. Catalyst design by molecular imprinting. Shokubai
1997, 39, 565–571.
84. Yin, H.; Wei, Yen. Effort to make chiral cavity in sol-gel materials by using large
molecules as templates. Abstracts of Papers, 224th ACS National Meeting,
Boston, MA, United States, August 18–22, 2002; PMSE-182 (2002).
85. Heilmann, J.; Maier, W.F. Selective catalysis with silicon dioxide imprinted with
transition state analogs. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994, 33, 471–473.
86. Morihara, K.; Kurokawa, M.; Kamata, M.; Shimada, T. Enzyme-like enantioselec-
tive catalysis over chiral “molecular footprint” cavities on a silica (alumina) gel
surface. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1992, 358–360.
87. Ahmad, W.R.; Davis, M.E. Transesteriﬁcation on “imprinted” silica. Catal. Lett.
1996, 40, 109–114.
88. Heilmann, J.; Maier, W.F. Problems in selective catalysis with molecular imprints in
silica. Selective lactones formation from hydroxyesters in micropores. Zeitschrift
fuer NaturforsChun B: Chem. Sciences 1995, 50, 460–468.
89. Davis, M.E.; Lobo, R.F. Zeolite and molecular sieve synthesis. Chem. Mater. 1992,
4, 756–768.
90. Lewis, D.W.; Freeman, C.F.; Catlow, C.R.A. Predicting the templating ability of
organic additives for the synthesis of microporous materials. J. Phys. Chem. B
1995, 99, 11194–11202.
91. Lewis, D.W.; Catlow, C.R.A.; Thomas, J.M. Inﬂuence of organic templates on
the structure and on the concentration of framework metal ions in microporous
aluminophosphate catalysts. Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 1112–1118.
92. Sastre, G.; Fornes, V.; Corma, A. On the preferential location of Al and proton sitting
in zeolites: A computational and infrared study. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 701.
93. Sastre, G.; Leiva, S.; Sabater, M.J.; Gimenez, I.; Rey, F.; Valencia, S.; Corma, A.
Computational and experimental approach to the role of structure-directing agents
in the synthesis of zeolites: The case of cyclohexyl alkyl pyrrolidinium salts in the
Corma
410
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
synthesis of b, EU-1, ZSM-11 and ZSM-12 zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107,
5432.
94. Villaescusa, L.A.; Barret, P.A.; Camblor, M.A. ITQ-7: a new pure silica polymorph
with three-dimensional system of large pore channels. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1999,
38, 1997.
95. Corma, A.; Dı
´az-Caban
˜as, M.J.; Forne
´s, V. Synthesis, characterization, and catalytic
activity of a large-pore tridirectional zeolite, H-ITQ-7. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2000,
39 (13), 2346–2349.
96. Corma, A.; Gime
´nez, I.; Leiva, S.; Rey, F.; Sabater, M.J.; Sastre, G.; Valencia, S.
14th International Zeolite Conference, Cape Town, April 25–30, 2004.
97. Corma, A.; Navarro, M.T.; Rey, F.; Rius, J.; Valencia, S. Pure polymorph C of
zeolite beta synthesized by using framework isomorphous substitution as a
structure-directing mechanism. Angew. Chem. Inter. Ed. Engl. 2001, 40, 2277–2280.
98. Subat, M.; Borovik, A.S.; Ko
¨nig, B. Synthetic creatine receptor: Imprinting of a
Lewis acidic Zn(II) cyclen binding site to shape its molecular recognition selectivity.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc 2004, 126, 3185–3190.
99. Polborn, K.; Severin, K. Molecular imprinting with an organometallic transition
state analogue. Chem. Commun. 1999, 24, 2481–2482.
100. Tamarasso, T.; Perego, G.; Notari, B. US Patent 441050, 1983.
101. Notari, B. Microporous crystalline titanium silicates. Adv. Catal. 1996, 41,
253–334.
102. Clerici, M.G.; Romano, U. Oleﬁn epoxidation catalysts. EP Patent 230949, 1987.
103. Clerici, M.G.; Anfossi, B.; Bellussi, G. Process for oxidating parafﬁnic compounds.
EP Patent 412596, 1990.
104. Diaz-Caban
˜as, M.J.; Villaescusa, L.A.; Camblor, M.A. Synthesis and catalytic
activity of Ti-ITQ-7: A new oxidation catalyst with a three-dimensional system of
large pore channels. Chem. Commun. 2000, 761–762.
105. Corma, A.; Diaz-Caban
˜as, M.J.; Domine, M.E.; Rey, F. Ultra fast and efﬁcient
synthesis of Ti-ITQ-7 and positive catalytic implications. Chem. Commun. 2000,
1725–1726.
106. Camblor, M.A.; Corma, A.; Esteve, P.; Guil, J.M.; Matinez, A.; Perdigo
´n-
Melo
´n, J.A.; Valencia, S. Direct synthesis and characterization of hydrophobic
aluminum-free Ti-beta zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 75–88.
107. Wu, P.; Tatsumi, T.; Komatsu, T.; Yashima, T. A novel titanosilicate with MWW
structure. I. Hydrothermal synthesis, elimination of extraframework titanium, and
characterizations. J. Phys. Chem. B. 2001, 105, 2897–2905.
108. Wu, P.; Tatsumi, T.; Yashima, T. A new generation of titanosilicate catalyst:
Preparation and application to liquid-phase epoxidation of alkenes. Catal. Survey.
From Asia 2004, 8, 137–148.
109. Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Pergher, S.B.; Maesen, Th.L.M.; Buglass, G. Delaminated
zeolite precursors as selective acidic catalysts. Nature 1998, 396, 353.
110. Nuntasri, D.; Wu, P.; Tatsumi, T. Highly active delaminated Ti-MWW for epoxida-
tion of bulky cycloalkenes with hydrogen peroxide. Chem. Lett. 2003, 32, 326–327.
111. Corma, A.; Domine, M.E.; Gaona, J.A.; Jorda, J.L.; Navarro, M.T.; Rey, F.;
Pe
´rez-Pariente, J.; Tsuji, J.; McCulloch, B.; Nemeth, L.T. Strategies to improve
the epoxidation activity and selectivity of Ti-MCM-41. Chem. Commun. 1998,
2211–2212.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
411
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
112. Corma, A.; Garcı
´a, H. Lewis acids as catalysts in oxidation reactions: From
homogeneous to heterogeneous systems. Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 3837–3892.
113. Mal, N.K.; Bhaumik, A.; Kumar, R.; Ramaswamy, A.V. Sn-ZSM-12, a new,
large pore MTW type tin-silicate molecular sieve: Synthesis, characterization and
catalytic properties in oxidation reactions. Catal. Lett. 1995, 33, 387–394.
114. Mal, N.M.; Ramaswamy, A.V. Synthesis and catalytic properties of large-pore Sn-b
and Al-free Sn-b molecular sieves. Chem. Commun. 1997, 425–426.
115. Corma, A.; Nemeth, L.T.; Renz, M. Sn-zeolite beta as a heterogeneous chemoselec-
tive catalyst for Baeyer-Villiger oxidations. Nature 2001, 412, 423–425.
116. Corma, A.; Fornes, V.; Iborra, S.; Mifsud, M.; Renz, M. One-pot synthesis of
phenols from aromatic aldehydes by Baeyer-Villiger oxidation with H2O2 using
water-tolerant Lewis acids in molecular sieves. J. Catal. 2004, 221 (1), 67–76.
117. Corma, A.; Domine, M.E.; Valencia, S. Water-resistant solid Lewis acid catalysts:
Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley and Oppenauer reactions catalyzed by tin-beta zeolite.
J. Catal. 2003, 215 (2), 294–304.
118. Corma, A.; Domine, M.E.; Nemeth, L.; Valencia, S. Al-free Sn-Beta zeolite as a cat-
alyst for the selective reduction of carbonyl compounds (Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley
reaction). J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 3194–3195.
119. Kharitonov, A.S.; Gennadii, I.P.; Kazimira, G.I.; Vyacheslav, N.R.; Galina, A.S.;
Lidia, A.V.; Vladimir, I.S. Preparation of phenol or phenol derivatives. US Patent
5110995, March 1992.
120. Kharitonov,
A.S.;
Panov,
G.I.;
Sheveleva,
G.A.;
Pirutko,
L.V.;
Vos
Kresenskaya, T.P.; Sobolev, V.I. Catalysts for production of phenol and its
derivatives. WO Patent 95/27560, April 1995.
121. Rodkin, M.A.; Uriarte, A.K.; Sobolev, V.I.; Panov, G.I. Process for making phenol
or phenol derivatives. WO Patent 98/43934, 1998.
122. Yamada, T.; Takai, T.; Rhode, O.; Mukaiyama, T. Oxidation of aldehydes into
carboxylic acids with molecular oxygen using nickel(II) complex catalyst. Chem.
Lett. 1991, 1, 5–8.
123. Strukul, G. Transition metal catalysis in the Baeyer-Villiger oxidation of ketones.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1998, 37, 1199–1209.
124. Hoelderich, W.F. “One-pot” reactions: A contribution to environmental protection.
Appl. Catal. A. General 2000, 194, 487–496.
125. Nijhuis, T.A.; Huizinga, B.J.; Makkee, M.; Moulijn, J. Direct epoxidation of propene
using gold dispersed on TS-1 and other titanium-containing supports. Ind. Eng.
Chem. Res. 1999, 38, 884–891.
126. Rodrı
´guez, C.L.; Zajacek, J.G. Process for producing oleﬁn oxides. US Patent
5463090, 1995.
127. Clerici, M.G.; Ingallina, P. Integrated process for epoxide production. US Patent
5221795, 1993.
128. Thomas, J.M.; Raja, R.; Sankar, R.; Bell, R. Molecular-sieve catalysts for the selec-
tive oxidation of linear alkanes by molecular oxygen. Nature 1999, 398, 227–230.
129. Diaz-Caban
˜as, M.J.; Corma, A. Zeolita ITQ-30, P200401391, May 2004.
130. Osborn, J.A.; Jardine, F.H.; Young, J.F.; Wilkinson, G. Preparation and properties of
tris(triphenylphosphine)halorhodium(I)
and
some
reactions
thereof
including
catalytic homogeneous hydrogenation of oleﬁns and acetylenes and their derivatives.
J. Chem. Soc. (A) 1966, 1711–1732.
Corma
412
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
131. Iwasawa, Y. Surface catalytic reactions assisted by gas phase molecules. Acc. Chem.
Res. 1997, 30, 103–109.
132. Gates, B.C. Models of metal catalysts: Beyond single crystals. Top. Catal. 2001, 14,
173–180.
133. Bianchini, C.; Meli, A.; Patinec, V.; Sernau, V.; Vizza, F. Liquid-biphase hydroge-
nolysis of benzo[b]thiophene by rhodium catalysis. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119,
4945–4954.
134. Fraile, J.L.M.; Garcı
´a, J.L.; Mayoral, J.A.; Tornai, T.; Hormer, M.A. Bis(oxazoline)-
copper complexes, supported by electrostatic interactions, as heterogeneous cata-
lysts for enantioselective cyclopropanation reactions: Inﬂuence of the anionic
support. J. Catal. 1999, 186, 214–221.
135. Langham, C.; Taylor, S.; Bethell, D.; McMorn, P.; Page, P.C.B.; Willock, D.J.;
Sly, C.; Hancock, F.E.; King, F.; Hutchings, G.J. Catalytic asymmetric hetero-
geneous aziridination of alkenes using zeolite CuHY with [N-(p-tolylsulfonyl)imi-
no]phenyliodinane as nitrene donor. J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 2: Phys. Org.
Chem. 1999, 5, 1043–1049.
136. Clark, J.H. Solid acids for green chemistry. Acc. Chem. Res. 2002, 35 (9), 791–797.
137. Tada, M.; Iwasawa, Y. Approaches to design of active structures by attaching and
molecular imprinting of metal complexes on oxide surfaces. J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chemical 2003, 204, 27–53.
138. Dufaud, V.; Niccolai, J.; Thivolle-Cazat, J.; Basset, J.M. Surface organometallic
chemistry
of
inorganic
oxides:
The
synthesis
and
characterization
of
(.tplbond.SiO)Ta(:CHC(CH3)3)(CH2C(CH3)3)2
and
(.tplbond.SiO)2Ta
(:CHC(CH3)3)(CH2C(CH3)3). J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117 (15), 4288–4294.
139. Finn, M.G.; Sharpless, K.B. Mechanism of asymmetric epoxidation. 2. Catalyst
structure. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1991, 113 (1), 113–126.
140. Corma, A.; Garcı
´a, H.; Moussaif, A.; Sabater, M.J.; Zniber, R.; Reduane, A. Chiral
copper(II) bisoxazoline covalently anchored to silica and mesoporous MCM-41 as a
heterogeneous catalyst for the enantioselective Friedel-Crafts hydroxyalkylation.
Chem. Commun. 2002, (10), 1058–1059.
141. Baleizao, C.; Gigante, B.; Garcı
´a, H.; Corma, A. Vanadyl salen complexes
covalently anchored to single-wall carbon nanotubes as heterogeneous catalysts
for the cyanosilylation of aldehydes. J. Catal. 2004, 221, 77–84.
142. Brunel, D.; Lasperas, M. Desing of chiral organic-inorganic mesoporous materials as
enantioselective epoxidation and alkylation catalyst. In Nanostructured Catalysts;
Scott, S.L., Crudden, C.W., Jones, C.W., Eds.; Kluwer Academic/Plenum publish-
ers: New York, 2003; 157–177.
143. Brunel, D.; Blanc, A.C.; Mutin, P.H.; Corret, O.; Lafond, V.; Galarneau, A.;
Vioux, A.; Fajula, F. Desing of supported of micelle-templated silicas. Stud. Surf.
Sci. Catal 2003, 146, 419.
144. Wight, A.P.; Davis, M.E. Design and preparation of organic-inorganic hybrid
catalysts. Chem. Rev. 2002, 3589–3614.
145. Sayari, A.; Hamoudi, S. Periodic mesoporous silica based organic-inorganic
nanocomposite materials. Chem. Mater. 2001, 13, 3151.
146. Stein, A.; Melde, B.J.; Schroden, R.C. Hybrid inorganic-organic mesoporous
silicates. Nanoscopic reactors coming of age. Adv. Mater. 2000, 12, 1403.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
413
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
147. Rodriguez, I.; Iborra, S.; Corma, A.; Rey, F.; Jorda, J.L. MCM-41-quaternary
organic tetraalkylammonium hydroxide composites as strong and stabel Bro
¨nsted
base catalysts. Chem. Commun. 1999, 593–594.
148. Rodriguez, I.; Iborra, S.; Rey, F.; Corma, A. Heterogeneized Bro
¨nsted base catalysts
for ﬁne chemicals: Grafted quaternary organic ammonium hydroxides as catalyst for
the production of chromenes and coumarins. Appl. Catal. A: General 2000, 194,
241–252.
149. Diaz, I.; Marquez-Alvarez, C.; Mohino, F.; Perez-Pariente, J.; Sastre, E. Synthesis,
characterization and catalytic activity of MCM-41-type mesoporous silicas function-
alized with sulfonic acid. Appl. Catal. A. General 2001, 205, 19–30.
150. Zhou, X.G.; Yu, X.Q.; Huang, J.S.; Li, L.S.; Che, C.M. Asymmetric epoxidation
of alkenes catalyzed by chromium binaphthyl Schiff base complex supported on
MCM-41. Chem. Commun. 1999, (18), 1789–1790.
151. Kim, G.J.; Shin, J.H. Application of new unsymmetrical chiral Mn(III), Co(II,III)
and Ti(IV) salen complexes in enantioselective catalytic reactions. Catal. Lett.
1999, 63, 83–90.
152. Xiang, S.; Zhang, Y.; Xin, Q.; Li, C. Enantioselective epoxidation of oleﬁns
catalyzed by Mn (salen)/MCM-41 synthesized with a new anchoring method.
Chem. Commun. 2002, (22), 2696–2697.
153. Baleizao, C.; Gigante, B.; Sabater, M.J.; Garcı
´a, H.; Corma, A. On the activity of
chiral chromium salen complexes covalently bound to solid silicates for the enantio-
selective epoxide ring opening. Appl. Catal. A 2002, 228, 279–288.
154. Kim, G.J.; Park, D.W. The catalytic activity of new chiral salen complexes immobi-
lized on MCM-41 in the asymmetric hydrolysis of epoxides to diols. Catal. Today
2000, 63 (3–4), 537–547.
155. Bigi, F.; Moroni, L.; Maggi, R.; Sartori, G. Heterogeneous enantioselective epoxida-
tion of oleﬁns catalysed by unsymmetrical (salen)Mn(III) complexes supported on
amorphous or MCM-41 silica through a new triazine-based linker. Chem.
Commun. 2002, (7), 716–717.
156. Inagaki, S.; Guan, S.; Fukushima, Y.; Ohsuna, T.; Teresaki, O. Novel mesoporous
materials with a uniform distribution of organic groups and inorganic oxide in
their frameworks. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1999, 121, 9611–9614.
157. Melde, B.J.; Holland, B.T.; Blanford, C.F.; Stein, A. Mesoporous sieves with uniﬁed
hybrid inorganic/organic frameworks. Chem. Mater. 1999, 11, 3302–3308.
158. Asefa, T.; Ozin, G.A.; Grondey, H.; Kruk, M.; Jaroniec, M. Recent developments in
the synthesis and chemistry of periodic mesoporous organosilicas. Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 2002, 141, 1.
159. Guan, S.; Inagaki, S.; Ohsuma, T.; Teresaki, O. Cubic hybrid organic-inorganic
mesoporous crystal with a decaoctahedral shape. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122,
5660–5661.
160. Baleizao, C.; Gigante, B.; Das, D.; Alvaro, M.; Garcı
´a, H.; Corma, A. Periodic
mesoporous organosilica incorporating a catalytically Lectureive vanadyl Schiff
base complex in the framework. J. Catal. 2004, 223, 106–113.
161. Concepcion, P.; Corma, A.; Silvestre-Albero, J.; Franco, V.; Chane-Ching, J.Y.
Chemoselective hydrogenation catalysts: Pt on mesostructured CeO2 nanoparticles
embedded within ultrathin layers of SiO2 binder. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2004,
126 (17), 5523–5532.
Corma
414
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
162. Baleizao, C.; Gigante, B.; Das, D.; Alvaro, M.; Garcia, H.; Corma, A. Synthesis and
catalytic activity of a chiral periodic mesoporous organosilica (ChiMO). Chem.
Commun. 2003, (15), 1860–1.
163. Baleizao, C.; Gigante, B.; Garcı
´a, H.; Corma, A. Chiral vanadyl Schiff base complex
anchored on silicas enantioselective catalysts for formation of cyanohydrins: Optim-
ization of the asymmetric induction by support modiﬁcation. J. Catal. 2003, 215,
199–207.
164. Cervilla, A.; Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Llopis, E.; Palanca, P.; Rey, F.; Ribera, A. Inter-
calation of [MoVIO2(O2CC(S)Ph2)2]22 in a Zn(II)-A(III) layered double hydroxide
host: A strategy (or the heterogeneous catalysis of the air oxidation of thiols.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 1595–1596.
165. Cervilla, A.; Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Llopis, E.; Perez, F.; Rey, F.; Ribera, A. Model
reactions of molybdo-reductase. A novel and highly efﬁcient reduction of nitro-
benzene to aniline catalyzed by molybdenum-mediated oxygen atom transfer
reaction. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 6781–6782.
166. Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Rey, F.; Cervilla, A.; Llopis, E.; Ribera, A. Catalytic air
oxidation of thiols mediated at a Mo(VI)O2 complex center intercalated in a
Zn(II)-Al(III) layered double hydroxide host. J. Catal. 1995, 152, 237–242.
167. Corma, A.; Rey, F.; Thomas, J.M.; Sankar, G.; Ribera, A. On the atomic environ-
ment and the mode of lectureion of the catalytic centre in an intercalated oxo-
mobybdenum complex (MoO2fO2CC(S)Ph2g2)22 for oxygen-transfer reactions.
Chem. Commun. 1996, 1613–1614.
168. Kuntz, E. Organometallic catalysis in water: From the concept to the industrial
production. Info Chimie Magazine 2000, 421, 51–54.
169. Najera, C.; Alonso, D.A.; Pacheco, M.C. Highly active oxime-derived palladacycle
complexes for Suzuki-Miyaura and Ullmann-type coupling reactions. J. Org. Chem.
2002, 67, 5588–5594.
170. Najera, C.; Botella, L. Communications: A convenient oxime-carbapalladacycle-
catalyzed Suzuki cross-coupling of aryl chlorides in water. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2002, 41 (1), 179–181.
171. Najera, C.; Alonso, D.A.; Pacheco, M.C. Oxime-derived palladium complexes as
very efﬁcient catalysts for the Heck-Mizoroki reaction. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2002,
344 (2), 172–183.
172. Baleizao, C.; Corma, A.; Garcı
´a, H.; Leyva, A. An oxime-carbapalladacycle
complex covalently anchored to silica as an active and reusable heterogeneous
catalyst for Suzuki cross-coupling in water. Chem. Commun. 2003, 606–607.
173. Beleizao, C.; Leiva, A.; Garcı
´a, H.; Corma, A. Oxime carbapalladacycle covantly
anchored to high surface area inorganic supports or polymers as heterogeneous
green catalysts for the Suzuki reaction in water. J. Org. Chem. 2004, 69 (2),
439–446.
174. Breslow, R.; Zhang, B. Cleavage of phosphate esters by a cyclodextrin dimmer
catalyst that binds the substrates together with La3þ and hydrogen peroxide.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 7893–7894.
175. Proﬁlet, R.D.; Rothwell, A.P.; Rothwell, I.P. Surface-supported group 5 metal
organometallic compounds for catalytic arene hydrogenation. J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. 1993, 42–44.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
415
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
176. Corma, A.; Iglesia, M.; Sanchez, F. Hydrogenation of aromatics under mild con-
ditions on transition metal complexes in zeolitas. A cooperative effect of molecular
sieves. Catal. Lett. 1995, 32, 313–318.
177. Fitch, A.N.; Jobic, M.; Renouprez, A.J. Localization of benzene in sodium-Y-zeolite
by powder neutron diffraction. J. Phys. Chem. 1986, 90, 1311–1318.
178. De Mallmann, A.; Barthomeuf, D. Change in benzene adsorption with acido-basicity
of (Cs,Na)X zeolites studied by IR spectroscopy. Zeolites 1988, 8, 292–301.
179. Ayala, V.; Corma, A.; Iglesias, M.; Rinco
´n, J.A.; Sanchez, F. Hybrid organic-
inorganic catalysts: A cooperative effect between support and palladium and nickel
salen complexes on catalytic hydrogenation of imines. J. Catal. 2004, 224, 170–177.
180. Pugin, B.; Landert, H.; Spinder, F.; Blaser, H.U. More than 100,000 turnovers with
immobilized Ir-diphosphine catalysts in an enantioselective imine hydrogenation.
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2002, 344, 974–979.
181. Dorta, R.; Broggini, I.D.; Stop, R.; Ruegger, H.; Spindler, F.; Togni, A. Chiral
xyliphos complexes for the catalytic imine hydrogenation leading to the metolachlor
herbicide: Isolation of catalyst-substrate adducts. Chem. Eur. J. 2004, 10, 267–278.
182. Corma, A.; Forne
´s, V.; Martı
´nez-Triguero, J.; Pergher, S.B. Delaminated zeolites:
Combining the beneﬁts of zeolites and mesoporous materials for catalytic uses.
J. Catal. 1999, 186, 57.
183. Corma, A.; Dı
´az, U.; Domine, M.E.; Forne
´s, V. AlITQ-6 and TiITQ-6: Synthesis,
charLectureerizatio
´n, and catalytic activity. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2000, 39,
1499–1501.
184. Strikouvski, A.G.; Kasper, G.M.; Green, B.S.; Hradil, J.; Wulff, G. Catalytic mole-
cularly imprinted polymers using conventional bulk polymerization or suspension
polymerization: Selective hydrolysis of diphenyl carbonate and diphenyl carbamate.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 6295–6296.
185. Tanimura, T.; Katada, N.; Niwa, M. Molecular shape recognition by a tin oxide
chemical sensor coated with a silica overlayer precisely designed using an organic
molecule as the template. Langmuir 2000, 16, 3858–3865.
186. Suzuki, A.; Tada, M.; Sasaki, T.; Shido, T.; Iwasawa, Y. Design of catalytic sites at
oxide surfaces by metal-complex attaching and molecular imprinting techniques.
J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical 2002, 182–183, 125–136.
187. Fujii, Y.; Matsutani, K.; Kikuchi, K. Formation of a speciﬁc coordination cavity for
a chiral amino acid by template synthesis of a polymer Schiff base cobalt(III)
complex. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1985, 415–417.
188. Suh, J.; Cho, Y.; Lee, K.J. Macrocyclic metal complexes built on polyethylenimine.
J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1991, 113 (11), 4198–4202.
189. Matsui, J.; Nicholls, I.A.; Karube, I.; Mosbach, K. Carbon-carbon bond formation
using substrate selective catalytic polymers prepared by molecular imprinting: An
artiﬁcial class II aldolase. J. Org. Chem. 1996, 61, 5414–5417.
190. Locatelli, F.; Gamez, P.; Lemaire, M. Molecular imprinting of polymerized catalytic
complexes in asymmetric catalysis. J. Mol. Catal. A. Chem. 1998, 135, 89–98.
191. Santora, B.P.; Larsen, A.O.; Gagne, M.R. Toward the molecular imprinting of tita-
nium Lewis acids: Demonstration of Diels-Alder catalysis. Organometallics 1998,
17, 3138–3140.
Corma
416
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
192. Polborn, K.; Severin, K. Biomimetic catalysis with immobilized organometallic
ruthenium complexes: Substrate- and regioselective transfer hydrogenation of
ketones. Eur. J. Eur. J. 2000, 6 (24), 4604–4611.
193. Polborn, K.; Severin, K. Biomimetic catalysis with an immobilised chiral rho-
dium(III) complex. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2000, (8), 1687–1692.
194. Cammidge, A.N.; Baines, N.J.; Bellingham, R.K. Synthesis of heterogeneous
palladium catalyst assemblies by molecular imprinting. Chem. Commun. 2001,
2588–2589.
195. Tada, M.; Sasaki, T.; Iwasawa, Y. Novel SiO2-attached molecular-imprinting
Rh-monomer catalysts for shape-selective hydrogenation of alkenes; prepara-
tion, characterization and performance. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2002, 4 (18),
4561–4574.
196. Tada, M.; Sasaki, T.; Iwasawa, Y. Performance and kinetic behavior of a new SiO2-
attached molecular-imprinting Rh-dimer catalyst in size- and shape-selective
hydrogenation of alkenes. J. Catal. 2002, 211, 496–510.
197. Gelman, F.; Blum, J.; Avnir, D. Acids and bases in one pot while avoiding their
mutual destruction. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 3647–3649.
198. Koeller, K.M.; Wong, C.H. Complex carbohydrate synthesis tools for glycobio-
logists: Enzyme-based approach and programmable one-pot strategies. Glycobiology
2000, 10, 1157–1169.
199. Schoevaart, R.; Kieboom, T. Combined catalytic reactions—Nature’s way. Chem.
Innov. 2001, 31, 33.
200. Schoevaart, R.S.; Kieboom, T. Galactose dialdehyde: The forgotten candidate for a
protein cross-linker? Carbohydrydate Research 2001, 334, 1–6.
201. Schoevaart, R.S.; Kieboom, T. Combined catalytic conversio
´n involving an enzyme,
a homogeneous and a heterogeneous catalyst: One pot preparation of 4-deoxy-D
glucosa derivative from D-Galactose. Tetahedron Lett. 2002, 43, 3399–3400.
202. Verzijl, G.; Vries de, J.G.; Broxterman, Q.B. Process for the preparation of
enantiomerically enriched esters and alcohols. PCT WO01/90396A1, 2001.
203. Ba
¨ckwall, J.E.; Persson, B.A.; Larsson, L.E.; Le Ray, M. Process for the preparation
of enantiomerically enriched esters and alcohols. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1999, 121,
1645.
204. Schoevaart, R.; Van Rantwijk, F.V.; Sheldon, R.A. A four enzymatic cascade for the
one-pot synthesis of non-natural carbohydrates form glycerol. J. Org. Chem. 2000,
65, 6940.
Attempts to Fill the Gap Between Enzymatic Homogeneous
417
Downloaded by [The University of British Columbia] at 03:45 19 February 2013 
