Adv. Catal. 51 (2007) 1–74
Infrared Spectroscopy of Transient
Surface Species
C. LAMBERTI, E. GROPPO, G. SPOTO, S. BORDIGA and A. ZECCHINA
Department of Inorganic, Physical and Materials Chemistry and NIS Centre of Excellence, University of
Turin, Via P. Giuria 7, I-10125 Turin, Italy; E-mails: carlo.lamberti@unito.it and
adriano.zecchina@unito.it
A full understanding of a catalytic reaction requires a thorough identiﬁcation of precursor and
intermediate species. In this regard spectroscopies, in general, and infrared (IR) spectroscopy, in
particular, can play an important role. However, the spectroscopic identiﬁcation of precursor and
intermediate species is often difﬁcult owing to their transient nature. In this review we show how
control of experimental parameters such as temperature, equilibrium pressure, and reactant–cat-
alyst contact time allows experimentalists to alter the rates of dynamic processes and consequently
to modify appreciably the relative concentrations of precursor, intermediate, and product species
present under reaction conditions. In this context, time-resolved FTIR spectroscopy (with con-
stant temperature and pressure during the experiment) and also temperature-time resolved (with
both temperature and time changing simultaneously in a controlled way during the experiment)
can be useful for kinetic investigations of several types of reactions. In this review several examples
demonstrating the potential value of FTIR spectroscopy for the identiﬁcation of surface transient
species are discussed. These are classiﬁed in four main categories: (i) adsorption processes and
transformations in the adsorbed state; (ii) proton-catalyzed oligomerization and polymerization
of alkenes and unsaturated molecules in protonic zeolites; (iii) oligomerization reactions catalyzed
by basic surface sites, and (iv) oligomerization and polymerization of alkenes on catalysts in-
corporating supported transition metal ions. All these reactions are discussed in the framework of
a few common potential energy proﬁles in which the evolution from the precursor through the
intermediate species to the ﬁnal products is governed by the relative height of the corresponding
activation energy barriers.
Abbreviations: Materials: ETS-10, Engelhard crystalline microporous titanosilicate; Ferrierite, zeolite
with FER framework (IUPAC nomenclature); MCM-41, Mobil mesoporous material of type 41;
mordenite,
zeolite
with
MOR
framework
(IUPAC
nomenclature);
SAPO-34,
microporous
silicoaluminophosphate with CHA framework (IUPAC nomenclature); silicalite, aluminum-free zeolite
with MFI framework (IUPAC nomenclature); Y, zeolite with FAU framework (IUPAC nomenclature)
and a Si/Al ratio higher than 2; ZSM-5, zeolite with MFI framework (IUPAC nomenclature); b, zeolite
with BEA framework (IUPAC nomenclature). Acronyms: AFM, atomic force microscopy; ATR,
attenuated total reﬂection; B3-LYP, hybrid Hamiltonian developed by Becke, Lee, Yang, and Parr; BE,
binding energy; BSSE, basis set superimposition error; DRIFT, diffuse reﬂectance infrared Fourier
transform; DRS, diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy; EELS, electron energy loss spectroscopy; EPR,
electron paramagnetic resonance; EXAFS, extended X-ray absorption ﬁne structure; FTIR, Fourier
transform infrared; FWHM, full width at half maximum; HDPE, high-density polyethylene; IR,
Infrared; IRAS, infrared reﬂection absorption spectroscopy; IRES, infrared emission spectroscopy;
LLDPE, linear low-density polyethylene; MB, methylbenzene; MTG, methane-to-gasoline; MTH,
1
r 2007 Published by Elsevier Inc.
ISSN: 0360-0564
DOI: 10.1016/S0360-0564(06)51001-6
methanol-to-hydrocarbon; MTO, methanol-to-oleﬁn (methanol-to-alkene); MW, molecular weight;
NMR, nuclear magnetic resonance; PA, proton afﬁnity; PE, polyethylene; SFG, sum frequency
generation; TEM, transmission electron microscopy; TOF, turnover frequency; XANES, X-ray
absorption near edge structure; XAS, X-ray absorption spectroscopy; XPS, X-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy; XRPD, X-ray powder diffraction; UV–Vis, ultraviolet–visible. Symbols: A(T), integrated
intensity of an IR band at temperature T (a.u.cm1); Amax, integrated intensity of an IR band at
saturation (a.u.cm1); K, Boltzmann constant (k ¼ 1.38  1023 J K1); Kads, equilibrium constant of a
surface adsorption process; Iexp, intensity of a measured IR mode, given in a qualitative scale: VS (very
strong), S (strong), M (medium), W (weak), VW (very weak); Itheo, intensity of a computed IR mode,
given on a qualitative scale (VS, S, M, W, and VW); M, monomer; Mg2þ
3c , three-coordinated surface
magnesium cation (corner site); Mg2þ
4c , four-coordinated surface magnesium cation (step site); Mg2þ
5c ,
regular, ﬁve-coordinated, surface magnesium cation; O2
3c , three-coordinated surface oxygen anion
(corner site); O2
4c , four-coordinated surface oxygen anion (step site); O2
5c , regular, ﬁve-coordinated,
surface oxygen anion; PCO, CO equilibrium partial pressure (kPa); PNO, NO equilibrium partial pressure
(kPa); t, time (s); T, temperature (K); d, bending mode; DEA, activation energy for ‘?A surface adduct
formation; DEA-C, activation energy for A-C surface reaction; DEC, activation energy for the release
of C from ‘ surface site; DEI, activation energy for monomer insertion in a polymerization reaction;
DEPT, activation energy for proton transfer reaction; DEt, activation energy for the release of oligomer
(polymer); D~
nðABÞ, variation of the AB stretching frequency with respect to that in the gas phase
(cm1); n, stretching mode; ~
nðABÞ, AB stretching frequency (cm1); ~
nasðUÞ, frequency of the
asymmetric stretching mode of the U unit: U ¼ CH2, CH3, (CO)2 y (cm1); ~
nasðUÞ, frequency of the
symmetric stretching mode of the U unit: U ¼ CH2, CH3, (CO)2 y (cm1); y, surface coverage; ymax,
maximum surface coverage; ‘, generic surface site; ‘H+, surface Brønsted acid site.
I. Introduction
The primary goals of investigations of reaction dynamics of solid catalysts under
working conditions are the following: (i) investigation of the reaction initiation
steps; (ii) detection of possible (transient) intermediate species; (iii) investigation of
the reaction pathway; and (iv) elucidation of the nature and distribution of the
reaction products (either in the ﬂuid phase or in the adsorbed state) (1–3).
The possibility of investigating the elementary reaction steps (points i and ii) and
the reaction pathway (point iii) with spectroscopic methods depends on the lifetimes
of the intermediate species. It is obvious that only those species having lifetimes
greater than the time required for acquisition of the spectra can be detected. On the
other hand, the time scale of the processes is not a problem in the achievement of
the last goal (point iv). It is sufﬁcient for the reaction products to have characteristic
and easily distinguishable spectroscopic features to allow their straightforward
detection at the end of the catalytic process.
In infrared (IR) spectroscopy, the replacement of dispersive spectrometers by
FTIR instruments in the 1980s drastically reduced the time scale for acquisition of
an IR spectrum, from minutes to seconds. Today, with ‘‘conventional’’ FTIR in-
struments, the fast FTIR acquisition mode allows sub-second time resolution. Fast
FTIR spectra can be obtained by reducing the spectral resolution (proportional to
the movable mirror translation) and by collecting the interferograms without
performing the Fourier transformation. The latter is then performed at the end of
the experiment (4–10). In this case, the time resolution can reach 25–50 scans per
second (still producing spectra with favorable signal-to-noise ratios), this being the
time scale determined by the translation of the movable mirror. Thus, although this
C. LAMBERTI et al.
2
[I
sort of fast FTIR spectroscopy cannot be considered as time-resolved in the usual
sense (i.e., on the time scale dictated by the molecular and electronic motions), it
can still represent a useful tool for investigation of processes that proceed on time
scales associated with kinetic effects.
The recent innovation of the step-scan-mode has allowed spectroscopists to reach
a time resolution of 109 s (9,11). In this case, the time scale is limited by the
electronic read-out speed of the detector. To perform a step-scan investigation, a
kinetics experiment must be repeated n times (where n is the number of points of the
interferogram) with the movable mirror ﬁxed in each position xj (at which the usual
acquisition of the interferogram should have taken place). Under these conditions,
the data are signals SxjðtiÞ as a function of time ti for each position xj. The time-
resolved interferograms are then constructed by reading the signals SxjðtiÞ collected
at the same time (in the different experiments) as a function of xj. The method is
extremely powerful; however, it can be applied only to systems that guarantee a full
reproducibility at the Dt ¼ (ti+1ti) level. As the most important catalysts are ex-
tremely complex structurally, such a severe reproducibility constraint is only rarely
achieved. Therefore, no examples of experiments performed with the step-scan
approach are reviewed here.
Notwithstanding the relatively limited time resolution of the ‘‘conventional’’ fast
FTIR technique, it will be demonstrated here that the number of catalytic systems
that can be characterized successfully in dynamic investigations can be increased by
adopting suitable temperature and pressure conditions, which permit the observa-
tion of otherwise elusive intermediates.
Among the research areas in which FTIR spectroscopy has been applied suc-
cessfully for characterization of intermediate species are the following: (a) adsorp-
tion processes and transformations of adsorbed species; (b) proton-catalyzed
oligomerization and polymerization of alkenes and of other unsaturated molecules
in protonic zeolites; (c) oligomerization reactions catalyzed by basic surface sites;
(d) oligomerization and polymerization of alkenes on catalysts incorporating sup-
ported transition metal ions. The examples selected in this review belong to these
reaction classes. In particular, in Section II we review the decomposition of NO in
Cu-exchanged zeolites (class a). Section III deals with very low-temperature (20 K)
H2 adsorption and activation on MgO (class a). Another example belonging to class
(a) is discussed in Section IV.A, where the intermediate species present during the
methanol-to-alkene (methanol-to-oleﬁn, MTO) reaction in protonic zeolites are
discussed. Section IV.B is a review of some results concerning oligomerization of
alkenes and acetylenic molecules catalyzed by Brønsted sites in various zeolites
(class b). Section V is devoted to the discussion of CO oligomerization on the basic
surface sites of MgO (class c), and Section VI is concerned with the ethene
polymerization on the Phillips catalyst (Cr/SiO2), an example of class (d). As most
of the reactions reviewed in this work can be described with a common scheme,
Sections I.A,I.B and I.C are devoted to a general description of the dynamic aspects
of surface reactions. In the discussion of the speciﬁc examples (Sections II–VI), we
often refer to the general schemes introduced in Sections I.A,I.B and I.C.
This review, in contrast to our earlier review in Advances in Catalysis (12), is not
comprehensive. Few selected references are given here concerning the literature of
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
3
I]
IR characterization of catalysts in the functioning state (3,12–28). The cases
discussed here are investigations of a relatively low-pressure range (typically
101104 Pa), whereas often a catalyst works at much higher pressures. As for IR
investigations performed at relatively high pressures, we recommend the following
literature (29–31). Moreover, only the gas/solid interaction is considered in this
work, and no space is devoted to a discussion of liquid/solid interfacial phenomena,
an omission that excludes the large family of solid catalysts working in the presence
of liquids. One of the most powerful techniques for the investigation of such
interactions is IR attenuated total reﬂection (ATR) spectroscopy, for which we
recommend the following literature (32–35).
The examples reviewed in this work refer to applications of transmission IR
spectroscopy of powder systems, which is the common state of solid catalysts under
working conditions. Often the nature of a real catalyst is extremely complex, and
the understanding of the spectroscopic responses is consequently difﬁcult. In such
cases the adoption of model systems is required to better understand the phenom-
ena occurring on the real system. Clear examples of model systems are Cu-
exchanged zeolites prepared via the gas-phase exchange with CuCl (Section II.A)
and CO-reduced Cr(II)/SiO2 (Section VI.A). In these cases the support remains the
same as for the real catalyst, but a significant limitation of the heterogeneity and
complexity of the active species is achieved. Alternatively, in some cases, significant
simpliﬁcations of the system can be obtained by using well-deﬁned single-crystal
surfaces as support for the active species. In these cases, the vibrational properties
of adsorbed species can be investigated by classical surface science techniques, such
as infrared reﬂection absorption spectroscopy (IRAS), electron energy loss spec-
troscopy (EELS), and sum frequency generation (SFG) (22,25,36–46,257).
Furthermore, in particular cases, the combined use of IR spectroscopy with other
spectroscopic or structural techniques allows one to investigate solid catalysts under
working conditions and thus to gain insights into the reaction intermediates and
active sites (1,47–51,258).
A. DYNAMIC ASPECTS IN ADSORPTION AND SURFACE TRANSFORMATIONS
Adsorption of gases can lead to the formation of a variety of surface species in
many systems. Although some of these species are formed immediately upon con-
tact of the surface with the gas phase, others require some time to reach the max-
imum coverage. For instance, this behavior has been observed for the adsorption of
H2, of CO, and of NO on many oxides (12,21) and zeolites (21,52,53), as described
in detail in Sections II and III for two examples. The species formed immediately
are those associated with adsorption barriers that are negligible with respect to kT;
the others are characterized by higher activation barriers. For simplicity, let us
consider the most common case of a simple reaction such as 2A-C, catalyzed on a
single, isolated surface site ‘. The reaction scheme can be that represented in Fig.
1. According to this scheme, the ﬁrst step is the formation of the precursor species
‘-A, followed by the insertion of a second A molecule, resulting in ‘-2A. Both
processes are usually characterized by low activation barriers (DEA and DE2A).
The surface species ‘-A and ‘-2A can be considered as precursor species.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
4
[I
The following step is the chemical reaction leading to the formation of the adsorbed
product ‘-C, which can be released subsequently upon overcoming the activa-
tion barrier DEC (Fig. 1). Usually, along the whole reaction path, the highest
activation barrier is that of the chemical reaction, DE2A-C. Clear examples of this
situation are the following: (i) the 2NO -N2+O2 reaction catalyzed by Cu+ sites
hosted in zeolite cavities (Sections II.B.3 and II.C) and (ii) the adsorption and
activation of hydrogen observed on high-surface-area MgO at 20 K (Section III).
When the temperature T of the adsorption experiment is such that kT is greater
than
the
activation
barrier
associated
with
the
chemical
reaction
(i.e.,
kT>>DE2A-C), then the precursor ‘-2A rapidly transforms into the product
C; hence, its observation by IR spectroscopy is difﬁcult or impossible. Under these
conditions, the IR experiment gives information only about species C. If the acti-
vation barrier for the release of C is greater than kT (DEC>kT), then only the spec-
troscopic manifestation of the C molecule perturbed by adsorption on ‘ (‘-C)
will be detected by IR spectroscopy. Conversely, if DECokT, then the unperturbed,
IR-active modes of C will be observed. In the latter case, the use of an IR cell with
a long optical path will improve the signal-to-noise ratio of the band of C in the
gas phase.
When the temperature T is progressively decreased, then DE2A-C becomes
greater than kT, and the precursor species are more and more stabilized, so that
their spectroscopic features begin to dominate the IR spectra. When the temper-
ature is sufﬁciently low, the precursor species become the only species present on the
surface. At such temperatures, an increase of the reactant equilibrium pressure (PA)
results in the progressive saturation of all the surface sites ‘. The use of PA as
thermodynamic variable will then allow one to tune the equilibrium ‘-A#‘-2A
and thus to optimize the signal of the spectroscopic signature of one of the two
precursor species. A clear example of this situation is again the equilibrium between
mono- and dinitrosyl adducts formed at liquid-nitrogen temperature on Cu+ sites
hosted in zeolite cavities (Section II.B.3).
 ∆EA
∆E2A→ C 
∆E2A 
+A
+A
+ C
∆EC 
C
-
2A
-
A
-
FIG. 1. Schematic representation of the energetic path followed along the 2A-C reaction catalyzed
by a surface site ‘. The precursor species are indicated as ‘-A and ‘-2A, while ‘-C represents the
adsorbed product. Also the activation energy barriers for each step are represented (unpublished).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
5
I]
In conclusion, a simple examination of the relative height of the potential barriers
suggests that an accurate control of the temperature can allow experimentalists to
tune the rates of the reactions and consequently the concentration of precursors and
transformation products. In other words, time-resolved spectroscopy (whereby
temperature and pressure are kept constant during the experiment) but also tem-
perature- and time-resolved IR spectroscopy (whereby both temperature and time
change simultaneously in a controlled way during the experiment) can represent
useful tools for kinetics investigations of reactions of species in the adsorbed state.
To aid the assignment of the IR bands to individual precursor species, the effect of
varying pressure at constant temperature may also be helpful when the formation of
product C in the adsorbed state is sufﬁciently slow.
B. DYNAMIC ASPECTS OF OLIGOMERIZATION REACTIONS CATALYZED BY BRØNSTED
ACID SITES
In the case of an oligomerization reaction catalyzed by Brønsted acid sites, the
scheme reported in Fig. 1 must be modiﬁed as represented in Fig. 2a.
According to this scheme, the ﬁrst step of the reaction is the formation of a
hydrogen-bonded precursor ‘H+?B, followed by the protonation of the mon-
omer, leading to the formation of ‘BH+. Examples of this type are shown in
Section IV.B, where the oligomerization of unsaturated molecules in protonic
zeolites is discussed. It is important that this ﬁrst step is common to other reactions
catalyzed by Brønsted acid sites. For example, in Section IV.A, the formation of
methyl-substituted benzene carbocations as intermediate species involved in the
MTO process in Hb zeolite is discussed.
In the oligomerization reactions, successive insertion steps lead to oligomers of
growing nuclearity, ‘BnH+, with n limited to low values. The protonated oligomers
‘BnH+ may then be released as neutral oligomers Bn, leaving the Brønsted acid
sites ‘H+ free for a new oligomerization reaction. Instead of considering the details
of the kinetics of this reaction sequence, we recall the following major points: (i)
The formation of the hydrogen-bonded precursor, ‘H+?B, is not normally as-
sociated with a potential barrier (i.e., DEBﬃ0); (ii) the protonation of the monomer
and the successive insertion steps are associated with significant activation barriers.
For simplicity, we assume that, in the absence of steric constraints, the barriers for
monomer protonation and for monomer insertions are roughly the same
(DEPTﬃDEB-2BﬃDEnB-(n+1)B) and are rather high. This means that the
oligomerization reaction proceeds with a very low rate, so that, on the time scale
of an FTIR experiment, only oligomers characterized by a low nuclearity can be
detected; (iii) the release of oligomers into the gas phase (termination) is also ac-
tivated (DEt>kT). In the examples considered in this review, the temperatures are
such that there is no appreciable formation of products in the gas phase, because
DEt>>DEPTﬃDEnB-(n+1)B (Section IV.B); hence, the termination reactions play
a negligible role in determining the concentrations of the various species.
The situation becomes complicated when the oligomerization reaction occurs in
the pores of a zeolite, because of the presence of external steric constraints. In this
C. LAMBERTI et al.
6
[I
∆EB 
H+
H
+
B
BH+
B2H+
B2
H+
H+
+B
+B
..
+B
+B
+
+
Bn
BnH+
H+
+B
+
Bn+1
H+
H
+ B
BH+
B2H+
B2
H+
+B
+B
..
+B
+
∆EPT 
∆E2B→ 3B 
∆EB→ 2B 
∆EB 
 ∆E(n-1)B→ nB 
∆Et 
Reaction path
(a) 
 
 
 
Reaction path
(b) 
 ∆E(n-1)B→ nB 
∆Et 
 ∆EnB→ (n+1)B
∆E2B→ 3B 
∆EB→ 2B 
∆EPT 
Bn+1H+
FIG. 2. (a) Schematic representation of the energetic path followed along an oligomerization reaction
catalyzed by a Brønsted acid site ‘H+. The hydrogen precursor species are indicated as ‘H+?B, while
‘BH+ represents the protonated monomer. ‘BnH+ are the protonated oligomers, while Bn are the
neutral oligomers. The activation energy barriers for each step are represented. Also the energy barrier
DEt associated with the oligomers release is represented in the perpendicular direction, as this step can
potentially occur for each B insertion. (b) The same reaction occurring in presence of external constraints
(e.g., inside the zeolite channels) (unpublished).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
7
I]
case, the activation energy DEnB-(n+1)B increases as the reaction proceeds, until the
barrier suddenly becomes very high because of the steric effects of the walls, as
represented in Fig. 2b. It is clear that under these conditions the oligomerization
reaction leads only to low-molecular-weight oligomers.
Thus, the following conclusions can be inferred from the schemes reported in
Fig. 2: (a) When the temperature T of the experiment is kept low enough to satisfy
the criterion DEPT>>kT, hydrogen-bonded precursors ‘H+?B are the only
observable species, and their concentrations can be tuned by changing the monomer
partial pressure (PB). Examples are discussed in Section IV.A (methyl-substituted
benzene carbocation complexes in hydrogen-form zeolites) and in Section IV.B
(hydrogen-bonded complexes of acetylene, ethene, and 1-butene). (b) When the
temperature is increased to the condition kTﬃDEPTﬃDEnB-(n+1)B, hydrogen-
bonded precursors and protonated oligomers BnH+ coexist and are simultaneously
observable, as is the case for acetylene and methylacetylene in HZSM-5 (Section
IV.B). (c) When kT>DEPTﬃDEnB-(n+1)B, the protonated oligomers become the
predominant species. In this case, the reaction rate is governed by the heights of the
energy barriers associated with the monomer insertion, and the rate of formation of
the oligomers can be controlled by changing the monomer partial pressure. Ex-
amples of this type are considered in Sections IV.B.1 and IV.B.2. (d) At a constant
temperature, the progress of the oligomerization reaction and the molecular weights
of the ﬁnal products can also be a function of the external steric constraints (e.g.,
available space inside the zeolitic voids), as described in Section IV.B.2, where
alkene oligomerization in zeolites of various pore sizes is discussed.
In summary, we conclude that, by tuning the temperature and pressure, we can
control the rates of the consecutive reactions and consequently modify the relative
concentrations of the hydrogen-bonded precursor ‘H+?B and of the protonated
oligomeric species ‘BnH+. The molecular weights of the ﬁnal oligomeric products
can be modiﬁed by adjusting the catalyst pore geometries. Thus, time-resolved,
time–temperature resolved spectra and pressure–time resolved spectra are expected
to give useful information characterizing the various species.
C. DYNAMIC ASPECTS OF UNSATURATED HYDROCARBONS OLIGOMERIZATION AND
POLYMERIZATION ON METAL-CONTAINING CATALYSTS
The oligomerization/polymerization of alkenes on catalysts containing transition
metal ions can be discussed on the basis of a scheme very similar to that reported in
Fig. 2, where the active center is represented by an isolated transition metal on the
catalyst surface (‘). The only difference with respect to the previous case concerns
the height of the energy barriers associated with the insertion process, which is
definitely lower (DEIokT ). On the basis of this consideration, and assuming the
absence of geometrical or steric constraints, the scheme of Fig. 2a can be modiﬁed
to give that as shown in Fig. 3.
The ﬁrst step of the reaction is again the adsorption of the alkene (here rep-
resented as M ¼ monomer), followed by the growth of the polymeric chain. With-
out entering into detailed discussions of the kinetics governing the entire reaction,
we assume for simplicity that the activation energy associated with the monomer
C. LAMBERTI et al.
8
[I
insertion is almost the same in each step of the propagation reaction (DEI). This
assumption means that, if kT  DEI, and if termination reactions are negligible
ðDEt  DEIÞ, the rate of propagation is high and the decrease of the precursor
concentration upon contact with the alkene can be so fast that the evolution with
time could not be followed by IR spectroscopy. Under these conditions, mostly
polymeric species are observed. An example of this type, ethene polymerization on
the Cr(II)/SiO2 Phillips catalyst at room temperature, is considered in Section
VI.C.1. Conversely, as already discussed in Sections I.A and I.B, when DEI  kT,
adsorbed alkenes are the major surface species, and their concentrations can be
tuned by an appropriate choice of pressure, as exempliﬁed by chromium–ethene
complexes formed at liquid-nitrogen temperature on the Cr(II)/SiO2 catalyst
(Section VI.C.2). Intermediate situations can occur when DEIﬃkT.
If the polymerization reaction occurs in the presence of steric constraints, the
activation energy associated with the monomer insertion grows with the progress of
the reaction, in the same way as discussed for the oligomerization reactions cat-
alyzed by Brønsted acid sites (Section I.B and Fig. 2a), because the available space
is progressively reduced. Under such conditions, the formation of polymeric species
is limited, and small oligomeric species can become observable. An example of this
situation is ethene polymerization on Cr/silicalite, in which the transition metal
center is grafted to the internal surface of a cavity (Section VI.C.1).
In conclusion, also in the case of alkene oligomerization/polymerization on
metal-containing catalysts, the rate of surface reactions and hence, the concentra-
tions of the surface species can be modiﬁed by tuning temperature and pressure
∆EM
+
..
+
+
+
+
M
M
M
M
M 2
M
M 2
M
M n
M n
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
∆Et
Reaction path
∆EI
∆EI
∆EI
∆EI
FIG. 3. Schematic representation of the energetic path followed along a polymerization reaction of the
monomer M catalyzed by a catalytic centre ‘ (such as a transition metal site or a basic surface center).
The precursor species are indicated as ‘?M, while ‘Mn represent oligomers/polymers. The acti-
vation energy barriers for each step (DEI) are represented. Also the energy barrier DEt associated with the
polymers release is represented in the perpendicular direction, as this step can potentially occur for each
M insertion. In contrast to the cases displayed in Fig. 2, in this case DEt>>DEI (unpublished).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
9
I]
appropriately, and the evolution of the reaction system can be followed in time. The
considerations developed above provide the foundation for a series of dynamic
investigations of IR spectra of adsorbed species on the surfaces of oxides and in the
channels of zeolite, as described below.
II. NO Decomposition in Cu-Exchanged Zeolites
A. PREPARATION OF Cu+-EXCHANGED ZEOLITES EXHIBITING A MODEL COMPOUND
CHARACTER
Copper-exchanged molecular sieves have been investigated widely since the dis-
covery that CuZSM-5 samples are catalytically active for the direct decomposition
of nitric oxide to nitrogen and oxygen (54–60). Because they have superior catalytic
activity, over-exchanged samples,1 prepared by a conventional ion exchange with
aqueous solutions of cupric ions, have received most of the attention. These systems
contain mixtures of copper ions in various degree of aggregation and in various
oxidation states (61–70). The heterogeneity of copper species in catalysts prepared
in this way implies that a single-structural model for Cu cations cannot be con-
ﬁdently assigned. The complexity makes difﬁcult the elucidation of structural and
catalytic properties of these materials.
Our group (71–83) has worked on the characterization of Cu(I)ZSM-5 samples
prepared by an ion-exchange procedure involving the reaction at 573 K of gaseous
CuCl with the zeolite (in the protonic form), according to Eq. (1):
SiðOHþÞAl
ðsurfÞ þ CuClðgÞ ! SiðOCuþÞAl
ðsurfÞ þ HClðgÞ.
ð1Þ
The resultant material is regarded as containing only isolated and well-deﬁned
copper species in a single, well-deﬁned, oxidation state. The evidences of the uni-
formity of the samples are the following: (i) well-deﬁned Cu(I) XANES features
(74,81); (ii) formation of well-deﬁned IR and XANES features upon probe mol-
ecules adsorption (75–78,81,83). The samples allow straightforward determination
of spectroscopic, energetic, and structural information, which affords insightful
comparisons with computational results obtained in quantum chemical investiga-
tions (84–91). This ion-exchange method, which has the advantage of introducing
only Cu(I) ions, was ﬁrst applied with ZSM-5 and extended to other molecular
sieves: faujasite (79,92,93), mordenite (79,94,95), b (79,95), and ferrierite (96).
B. FORMATION OF INTRAZEOLITIC CUPROUS COMPLEXES OF WELL-DEFINED
STOICHIOMETRY
Besides their interest as catalysts, zeolites are of interest because their three-
dimensionally organized microporous structures allow stabilization of otherwise
1 Following the convention introduced by Iwamoto, a 100% exchange is reached when a Cu2+ ion is
introduced for each two monovalent counterions (i.e., for each 2 Al(III) species of the framework).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
10
[II
labile coordination complexes (71–77,79,81,82,93,97). The zeolite framework is
believed to stabilize adducts that are not easily obtained in solution (98–104).
B.1. Cu+?N2 Complexes
It was reported, almost simultaneously by Spoto et al. (73) and Kuroda et al.
(105), that Cu+ ions hosted in ZSM-5 and mordenite frameworks are able to bind
N2 molecules, even at room temperature. The Cu+?N2 complexes, as observed by
IR spectroscopy, are characterized by a ~
nðNNÞ that is significantly lower than that
observed for the molecule in the gas phase, ~
nðNNÞ ¼ 2330 cm1, whereas the
previously observed intrazeolitic M+?N2 complexes were characterized by ~
nðNNÞ
frequencies higher than (or comparable to) that of the unperturbed molecule and
were observed only at liquid-nitrogen temperature (95,106–108). This remarkable
reactivity toward N2 of Cu+ ions hosted in zeolitic matrices has been explained in
terms of their high degrees of coordinative unsaturation (75). Following the ﬁrst IR
investigations, the intrazeolitic Cu+?N2 complexes have been characterized by
XANES
and
EXAFS
spectroscopies
and
by
adsorption
microcalorimetry
(74,82,109–111).
B.2. Cu+?(CO)n Complexes (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3)
The high coordinative unsaturation of the Cu+ ions hosted in zeolites is further
demonstrated by their ability to form carbonyl complexes containing variable
number n of CO ligands, depending on the equilibrium CO partial pressure (PCO)
and temperature. At room temperature, relatively stable adducts such as the
monocarbonyl [Cu(CO)]+ and dicarbonyl [Cu(CO)2]+ complexes were observed
(72,74,76–78,83,95,97,112,113), and tricarbonyl [Cu(CO)3]+ species are formed
when the sample is cooled to liquid-nitrogen temperature (72,74,76,77).
For comparison, binary compounds of the type [CuI(CO)n]+A have been
observed in strongly acidic media, such as H2SO4, CF3SO3H, FSO3H, BF3?H2O,
and HF (100). The isolation of such complexes as solids is difﬁcult; however, in
1996 Rack et al. (98) reported the formation and the structural and spectroscopic
characterization of the compounds [CuI(CO)n]+[AsF6] (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3).
IR spectra of carbonyl ligands at increasing PCO on Cu+-form zeolites are
reported in Fig. 4 for the host frameworks ZSM-5, zeolite b, zeolite Y, and
mordenite. At low values of PCO (Fig. 4a), a single band was observed for the
monocarbonyl complex in ZSM-5, zeolite b, and mordenite. In contrast, in zeolite
Y two different Cu+?CO adducts were observed, characterized by ~
nðCOÞ ¼
2160 and 2144 cm1, which are formed on two different cationic sites, labeled
as II and II* (93). This IR evidence is supported by Rietveld reﬁnement of XRPD
data collected at the ESRF synchrotron, where two different cationic sites have
been determined in the supercage (93). As a result of increasing PCO (Fig. 4b), the
formation of Cu+?(CO)2 adducts was observed for all samples, as demonstrated
by the splitting of the monocarbonyl band into two bands attributed to the
nas(CO)2 and ns(CO)2 modes of the complex (72,74,93,97). The fact that both
bands are IR active indicates that the intrazeolitic Cu+?(CO)2 adducts have C2v
symmetry (or lower), whereas the homogeneous counterparts are linear (DNh)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
11
II]
(98). A further increase of PCO (Fig. 4c) causes a nearly complete Cu+?(CO)2-
Cu+?(CO)3 transformation of the complexes in ZSM-5, zeolite b, and zeolite Y,
as indicated by the appearance of a new triplet of IR-active bands. This result
means that we are dealing with a complex of symmetry rather smaller than C3v, in
contrast to the homogeneous counterparts, which form planar adducts of D3h
symmetry (98). However, the assignment of the low frequency band to a third
vibrational component of the Cu+?(CO)3 complex in zeolites has been ques-
tioned (77), and an alternative hypothesis is that the band could be attributed
to liquid-like CO physisorbed on the zeolitic walls (114). According to this
alternative hypothesis, intrazeolitic Cu+?(CO)3 complexes should be in a C3v
symmetry.
The presence of cations in the less accessible side pocket sites of mordenite
implies the co-presence of mono-, di-, and tri-carbonyl adducts even at the higher
values of PCO (94), resulting in a broader and rather unresolved IR spectrum
(Fig. 4c, bottom full line). In zeolite Y, notwithstanding the presence of two cationic
sites in the supercage, the IR spectrum obtained at high PCO indicates the presence
of only one family of Cu+?(CO)3 adducts. This observation is explained by the
strong solvating power of the CO molecules, which are able to extract the Cu+ ions
from the more shielded position (site II*), as demonstrated by both EXAFS
(76,77,97) and XRPD data (93). The experiments reported in Fig. 4 indicates that
2200
2160
2120
Absorbance units
Wavenumber / cm-1
Wavenumber / cm-1
Wavenumber / cm-1
c)
2200
2160
2120
b)
2200
2160
2120
.... ZSM-5
____MOR
....  β
____ Y
0.5 a.u.
a)
FIG. 4. IR spectra of CO dosed, at liquid-nitrogen temperature, onto Cu+-ZSM-5 (bottom dotted
lines), Cu+-mordenite (bottom full lines), Cu+-b (top dotted lines), and Cu+-Y (top full lines) zeolites.
Parts (a), (b), and (c) report low, medium, and high PCO spectra, respectively, approximately corre-
sponding to mono-, di- and tri-carbonyl complexes. (Adapted with permission from Bordiga et al. (95).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
12
[II
ZSM-5 and zeolite b are more suitable for the formation of well-deﬁned
Cu+?(CO)n (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3) complexes than zeolite Y or mordenite.
B.3. Cu+?(NO)n Complexes (n ¼ 1 and 2)
The IR spectra of nitrosyl complexes, formed at low temperature in ZSM-5,
zeolite b, mordenite, and zeolite Y, as shown in Fig. 5, are similar to those of the
carbonyls (Fig. 4), with the single exception that Cu+?(NO)3 complexes have not
been observed. At low values of PNO (Fig. 5a), the formation of Cu+?NO adducts
gives rise to a single N–O stretching band,
~
nðNOÞ in Table I, which splits into the
antisymmetric and symmetric stretching modes of the Cu+?(NO)2 complex when
PNO is increased (23,61,71,72,74,79,93,95) (~
nasðNOÞ2 and ~
nsðNOÞ2 in Table I), as
reported in the spectra of Fig. 5b. In the spectra of the complexes in Y and b
zeolites, even at the lowest values of PNO, the two bands attributed to the
Cu+?(NO)2 complexes are superimposed on that of the mononitrosyl.
The increase of PNO yields a quantitative Cu+?NO-Cu+?(NO)2 transfor-
mation of the complexes in ZSM-5 and zeolite b (Fig. 5b). In Cu+-Y zeolite, the
presence of sites II and II* (Section II.B.2) generates two different Cu+?NO
adducts characterized by a ~
nasðNOÞ of 1814 and 1788 cm1 (93) (Table I), in agree-
ment with what was observed for CO (Fig. 4). This parallel does not apply at high
PNO, as only the less coordinated Cu+ ions in site II, characterized by ~
nðCOÞ ¼
2160 cm1 and ~
nðNOÞ ¼ 1814 cm1, are able to generate Cu+?(NO)2 adducts,
characterized by the doublet at ~
nasðNOÞ2 ¼ 1728 cm1 and ~
nsðNOÞ2 ¼ 1824 cm1
(Fig. 5b and Table I). The more coordinated II* ions are not able to coordinate a
1875
1800
1725
Absorbance units
Y
β
MOR
ZSM-5
x 4
0.5 a.u.
b)
1875
1800
1725
Wavenumbers cm-1
Wavenumbers cm-1
β
Y
MOR
ZSM-5
0.25 a.u.
x 8
a)
FIG. 5. IR spectra of NO dosed, at about 150 K onto (from top to bottom) Cu+-ZSM-5, Cu+-b,
Cu+-mordenite and Cu+-Y zeolites. Parts (a) and (b) refer to low and high PNO, respectively. (Adapted
with permission from Bordiga et al. (95).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
13
II]
second NO molecule in the PNO range investigated by Turnes Palomino et al. (93)
(Fig. 5b), so that the resulting spectrum shows coexisting features of mono- and
di-nitrosyl formed on the two different sites.
The spectra of the nitrosyl ligands in the mordenite-hosted complexes are more
complicated. Only a single (but complex) band centered at 1813 cm1 was observed
at low PNO (Fig. 5a). This unresolved IR feature is attributed to Cu+?NO adducts
formed on both main-channel and side-pocket sites (70). In the relatively low PNO
range investigated by Turnes Palomino et al. (79), only Cu+ ions hosted in the main
channel were able to form Cu+?(NO)2 adducts, resulting in the doublet at 1828
and 1730 cm1 (Table I). In these spectra, a low-frequency shoulder on the ~
nsðNOÞ2
band indicates the presence of Cu+?NO adducts in the side-pocket sites, even
when all main-channel sites have coordinated a second NO molecule. This fact
mirrors the case of CO adsorption (Fig. 4) (79). Llabre
´ s i Xamena et al. (70) later
showed that further increases in PNO allows side-pockets Cu+ sites to form
Cu+?(NO)2 complexes, but their geometry was found to be strongly distorted by
steric constraints, as indicated by the frequencies ~
nasðNOÞ2 ¼ 1785 cm1 and
~
nsðNOÞ2 ¼ 1870 cm1 (vide infra the ﬁrst spectra reported in Fig. 8), which differ
significantly from the nitrosyl frequencies characterizing the analogous dinitrosyl
complexes formed in the main-channel or in Cu+ZSM-5 and Cu+b zeolites (Table I).
Scheme
1
(reproduced
from
Reference
(70))
depicts
the
evolution
of
the
Cu+?(NO)"Cu+?(NO)2 equilibrium upon variation of PNO in Cu+ZSM-5
TABLE I
N–O Stretching Frequencies of Nitrosyl Adducts in Cu+-form Zeolites and in Cu2O (Pure and Supported)
Sample
~
n (NO) (cm1)
~
nas (NO)2 (cm1)
~
ns (NO)2 (cm1)
Reference
Cu+ZSM-5
1812
1734
1827
(74)
Cu+b
1811
1730
1826
(79)
Cu+-mordenite
1813
1730
1828
(70)
Main-channel site
Cu+-mordenite
1813
1785
1870
(70)
Side-pocket site
Cu+Y Site II
1814
1728
1824
(93)
Cu+Y Site II*
1788
Not observed
Not observed
(93)
NaCu+ETS-10
ﬃ1787
1740
1830
(95)
Isolated Cu+ site
NaCu+ETS-10
ﬃ1778
1708
1810
(95)
Cu2O site
Cu2O/SiO2
1775
1709
1811
(95)
Cu2+ZSM-5
1890
Not observed
Not observed
(74)
Cu2+-mordenite
1910
Not observed
Not observed
(70)
NaCu2+ETS-10(B)
1880
Not observed
Not observed
(95)
Cu2+ on
1894
Not observed
Not observed
(95)
Cu2O/SiO2
~
nðNOÞ refers to the frequency of the mode of mononitrosyl adducts, and ~
nasðNOÞ2 and ~
nsðNOÞ2 refer to
the frequency of the asymmetric and symmetric modes of dinonitrosyl complexes. For Cu+ZSM-5, Cu+-
mordenite, NaCuETS-10(B), and Cu2O/SiO2 samples, the IR frequency of the Cu2+y(NO) adduct
formed upon oxidation of Cu+ by NO is also reported (last four rows).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
14
[II
and in Cu+-mordenite, as monitored by IR spectroscopy (the ﬁrst steps are
described in Fig. 1).
For Cu+ZSM-5, Fig. 6 reports some intermediate spectra collected between the
low- and the high-PNO spectra reported in Figs. 5a and 5b, respectively. NO was
dosed at liquid-nitrogen temperature. Under such conditions, the molecules do not
reach the sample, as they are condensed on the metallic part of the IR cell. When
the temperature was slowly increased, NO started to desorb rather abruptly around
150 K. In this narrow temperature range, the key property providing the driving
force for change is PNO, so that the experiment reported in Fig. 6 can be classiﬁed
essentially as a pressure-dependent experiment at constant temperature. Once all
νs
 as
ZSM-5
MOR
Cu+(NO)
+ NO
Cu+(NO)2
1732
1826
1810
1813
1870
1785
1828
1730
∼
ν
∼
SCHEME 1.
1900
1850
1800
1750
1700
1650
Wavenumber (cm-1)
PNO
FIG. 6. IR spectra in the N–O stretching region of increasing PNO dosed at about 150 K onto Cu+-
ZSM-5 (see text for experimental details). Equilibrium pressures increasing from 6.7 to 267 Pa. (Adapted
with permission from Prestipino et al. (81).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
15
II]
the NO molecules had desorbed from the cell walls, the experiment could be clas-
siﬁed as essentially a temperature-dependent experiment at constant PNO (Fig. 7).
From the spectra reported in Fig. 6, it is clear that, in this temperature range, the
DENO and DE2NO values are comparable to each other and much smaller than kT,
as the equilibrium Cu+?(NO)"Cu+?(NO)2 could be easily shifted by varying
PNO (Fig. 1).
C. REACTIVITY OF INTRAZEOLITIC CUPROUS SITES TOWARD NO AS INVESTIGATED BY
TEMPERATURE-RESOLVED IR SPECTROSCOPY
The spectra reported in Figs. 5 and 6 and discussed in the previous section have
been obtained in a temperature range in which the Cu+-zeolite catalysts are not
active for the NO decomposition because of too high an activation barrier
(DE2NO!O2þN2) as compared to the thermal energy kT. This condition exactly
mirrors the scheme reported in Fig. 1 (Section I.A). In this case, the generic
molecule A is the NO molecule and the surface site ‘ is an intrazeolitic Cu+ ion.
If the Cu+-zeolite/NO systems are allowed to progressively reach room temper-
ature, then kT ﬁrst starts to be comparable to and then greater than DE2NO!O2þN2,
and the activity of the catalyst is switched on. The evolution of the Cu+ZSM-5/NO
1950
1900
1850
1800
1750
1700
0
1
2
2350
2300
2250
8980
8990 E/eV
Cu2+(NO)
(a)
Cu
+(NO)2
Absorbance
0.05 a.u.
wavenumber / cm-1
wavenumber / cm-1
(b)
250 G
B
µx=0.3
FIG. 7. Effect of increasing sample temperature, from about 150 K (dotted line) to room temperature
(dashed line) on the IR spectra of NO dosed onto Cu+-ZSM-5 (PNO ¼ 267 Pa at 150 K). Part (a) refers
to the N–O stretching region, while part (b) shows the region where the reaction intermediates are
expected. Vertical arrows indicate the evolution of the components upon increasing temperature. The
inset in part (a) reports the XANES spectra of Cu+-ZSM-5 under vacuum (gray line) and after in-
teraction with NO at low temperature (dotted line, PNO ¼ 1068 Pa), and after increasing the temperature
up to 300 K (dashed line). The inset in part (b) reports the EPR spectra of Cu+-ZSM-5 at 80 K in vacuo
(gray curve, Po 1.3  102 Pa) and after contact with NO at RT (PNO ¼ 1068 Pa) and subsequent
evacuation at RT (dashed curve, Po 1.3  102 Pa). The spectrum collected before interaction with NO
has been multiplied by 4 for graphical reasons. (Adapted with permission from Prestipino et al. (81).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
16
[II
system upon increasing the temperature from about 150 (dotted line) to 300 K
(dashed line) is shown in Fig. 7, which represents the continuation at higher tem-
perature of the experiment reported in Fig. 6. Part (a) reports the N–O stretching
region. Moving from the dotted line through the full lines to the dashed line spectra,
the decrease of the Cu+?(NO)2 doublet becomes evident, accompanied by the
appearance of a broad absorption in the 1920–1880 cm1 range, which is attributed
to the formation of various complexes of nitric oxide molecules adsorbed on Cu2+
ions (see References (71,72,74,81) for a detailed discussion and Table I). During the
temperature increase, the 2NO -O2+N2 reaction is progressively switched on, and
cuprous ions are oxidized to the cupric ions. The oxidation of Cu+ has been
indicated by parallel XANES (inset, Fig. 7a) and EPR experiments (inset, Fig. 7b).
By evaluating the remaining intensity of the Cu+(NO)2 bands reported in Fig. 7a
(dashed curve), Prestipino et al. (81) inferred that 85% of the overall copper was
oxidized by NO.
Indicative of the intermediate products of the NO decomposition process, new
bands appeared in the 23752215 cm1 region (Fig. 7b). The complex absorption in
the 2375–2345 cm1 range with a maximum at 2355 cm1, indicates the formation
of Cu2+?(N2) adducts (72,74,81). This band has a complex shape because of the
presence of co-adsorbed NO+ species, formed upon disproportionation of NO (81).
The relatively stronger absorption in the 2270–2220 cm1 range reﬂects the presence
of N2O molecules weakly bonded in the zeolite channels (61,72,74,81). In this case,
the activation barrier for the desorption of the products from the catalytic site (DEC
in Fig. 1) is much lower than kT at room temperature, and most of the O2 and N2
molecules were in the gas phase and thus not detectable by IR spectroscopy.
Figure 8 is a three-dimensional representation of an experiment with the Cu+-
mordenite/NO system similar to those reported for the Cu+ZSM-5/NO system in
Figs. 6 and 7. The ﬁrst spectra in Fig. 8 correspond to the spectra reported in Fig. 6
for Cu+ZSM-5, collected at almost constant TE150 K. For the Cu+ ions in the
main-channel, we observe that the Cu+?(NO)"Cu+?(NO)2 equilibrium can be
easily displaced by varying PNO, as indicated by the decrease of the 1813 cm1
component and by the increase of the 18281730 cm1 doublet (Scheme 1). This
reﬂects the behavior of Cu+ ions in ZSM-5 and indicates that the DENO and DE2NO
are comparable to each other and much smaller than kT (Fig. 1). In contrast, this
does not hold for Cu+ sites located in the side-pockets as they are able to form
Cu+?(NO)2 adducts (1870–1785 cm1 doublet, Scheme 1) only at higher values of
PNO, showing that the DE2NO activation barrier is much higher than DENO barrier
(70) (Fig. 1).
The evolution of the system upon increasing temperature up to 300 K is reported
in the last set of spectra in Fig. 8. The decrease of the components ascribed to both
Cu+?(NO)2 doublets (Scheme 1) is evident, together with the parallel increase of
the broad component at 1910 cm1, which characterizes Cu2+?NO complexes
(70). These changes were accompanied by the appearance of new IR features in the
2375–2200 cm1 region, which are associated with the formation of products and
intermediates of the 2NO-O2+N2 reaction (the spectra are not shown here
because they are similar to those observed for the Cu+ZSM-5/NO case, Fig. 7b).
These observations are the IR evidence that, during the temperature increase, the
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
17
II]
NO decomposition reaction is progressively switched on, and cuprous ions hosted
in mordenite are oxidized to the cupric ions. The oxidation of cuprous ions by NO
is only partial, as indicated by the following remaining features: (i) the intense band
at 1813 cm1 characterizing Cu+?NO complexes, and (ii) the weak band at
1730 cm1 and the shoulder at 1828 cm1 characterizing Cu+?(NO)2 complex in
the main-channel sites. Llabre
´ s i Xamena et al. (70) found evidence supporting these
IR results in XANES and EPR investigations.
III. H2 Splitting on High-Surface-Area MgO
The investigation of H2 adsorption on oxides is of importance for hydrogen ac-
tivation on solids, which takes place in catalysis (12) and in hydrogen storage (115).
As far as catalysis is concerned, hydrogenations, dehydrogenations, and hydrogen-
transfer reactions are known to occur on the surfaces of a-Cr2O3 and other oxides
containing transition metal ions with partially ﬁlled d-shells (12). Solids incorpo-
rating metal ions in d10 or d0 electronic conﬁguration (either metal oxides such as
ZnO, or MgO or oxidic materials such as exchanged zeolites) are generally less
active but nevertheless important, at least for fundamental investigations, because
of their ability to dissociate the hydrogen molecule. Investigations of HH bond
activation on oxide surfaces are also important because of the analogies with CH
bond activation, which occurs in various industrial catalytic processes. In this
respect, it has been shown that the sites responsible for H2 dissociation on MgO are
also active for CH bond cleavage (116).
1950
1900
1850
1800
1750
1700
T
PNO
Wavenumber / cm-1
FIG. 8. FTIR spectra, in the N–O stretching region, of NO dosed onto Cu+-MOR, at increasing
temperature from 80 to 300 K. The ﬁrst spectra, collected in the narrow temperature range where NO
sublimation from the metallic part of the IR cell occurs, are dominated by an important PNO increase (see
y axis). Once the desorption process is over, then the thermodynamic factor driving the process becomes
the temperature increase. (Adapted with permission from Llabre
´ s i Xamena et al. (70).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
18
[III
A. OVERVIEW OF ROOM TEMPERATURE EXPERIMENTS
Hydrogen adsorption on MgO can, in principle, be either molecular or disso-
ciative. Dissociative adsorption of hydrogen on high-surface-area MgO has already
been reported, and both homolytic and heterolytic pathways have been proposed
(12). Homolytic splitting is supposed to operate under UV-irradiation only
(117–119) and is not discussed further here. Heterolytic splitting takes place in
the dark and at 300 K on coordinatively unsaturated (cus) Mg2+O2 surface pairs
following the schematic mechanism illustrated in Scheme 2.
Following this reaction, two different families of hydrides and hydroxyls groups
are formed at room temperature, differing in their vibrational properties and their
behavior upon changes in PH2. The ﬁrst family (hereafter, Family I) is characterized
by two intense and narrow IR peaks, at 1325 and 3462 cm1 (Fig. 9), corresponding
to the n(MgH) and n(OH) modes, respectively. These species are formed reversibly
at room temperature, affected by changes in PH2, suggesting that the two fragments
are either in adjacent positions or, if present at distant positions, able to migrate
easily on the surface to recombine to give back molecular hydrogen (120–122).
Kno
¨ zinger et al. (122) inferred that the splitting process occurs on highly unsatu-
rated surface sites.
In contrast to Family I hydride and hydroxyls groups, the second (hereafter
Family II) is more stable and characterized by a n(MgH) mode at 1125 cm1 (broad
Mg
2+ O
2-
Mg
2+ O
2-
Mg
2+
-H
H δ+
O
2-
H+
cus
cus
H2
cus
cus
cus
cus
 
δ−H
SCHEME 2.
4500
4000
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
3462
1325
1125
3712
3547
1430 
family I
family II
family III
ν(HH)
ν(OH) 
ν(MgH)
FIG. 9. Schematic representation of hydride and hydroxyl stretching modes observed upon dosing H2
onto a high-surface-area MgO sample. Families I and II are directly observed in room temperature
experiments, while Family III has been observed only upon cooling the MgO/H2 system below 180 K, as
discussed in Section III.D (unpublished).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
19
III]
band) and by a n(OH) mode at 3712 cm1 (sharp band, Fig. 9). The intensities of
these bands are strongly dependent on the MgO surface area and the outgassing
temperature (122). Family II has been assigned recently to the result of a heterolytic
splitting process occurring at inverse corner sites (123,124).
The molecularly adsorbed intermediate species could not be detected at room
temperature, a result that implies a very fast splitting reaction (Scheme 2). If this
reaction is interpreted according to a reaction proﬁle analogous to that of the
generic scheme reported in Fig. 1 (where the reaction 2A-C is viewed now as A-
C+D), the implication is that the activation barrier DEA-C+D associated with the
H2 dissociation reaction is negligible at room temperature. Hence, the detection of
molecularly adsorbed H2 requires a substantial reduction of the temperature, as
demonstrated by the recent work of Gribov et al. (124), who reported H2 adsorp-
tion on MgO at 20 K. The following subsection is devoted to a description of the
main results achieved in that work.
B. TIME-DEPENDENT IR SPECTROSCOPY OF HYDROGEN ADSORBED AT 20 K ON
HIGH-SURFACE-AREA MgO
Upon dosing H2 onto high-surface-area MgO (230 m2 g1) pre-cooled to 20 K,
Gribov et al. (124) observed the appearance of the n(OH) and n(MgH) modes
belonging to Family II, while the spectroscopic features of Family I were almost
absent (Fig. 9). In the high-frequency region, they detected (for the ﬁrst time)
an important structured absorption in the 4200–4000 cm1 range (bold curve,
Fig. 10a), formed by several bands. As this is the spectral region where the n(HH)
mode of molecularly adsorbed H2 is expected (108,125–136), the authors ascribed
the three complex components centered at about 4126–4122, 40994093, and
4081–4076 cm1
to
the
molecular
adducts
Mg5c
2+?H2,
Mg4c
2+?H2,
and
Mg3c
2+?H2, respectively. The expected ortho–para splitting (of 6 cm1) is clearly
visible for the doublet at 40994093 cm1, while it results only in a band broad-
ening for the remaining two bands. These values are significantly red-shifted rel-
ative to the n(HH) mode of the unperturbed H2 molecule measured in the gas phase
by Raman spectroscopy, namely ~
nðHHÞ ¼ 4161 and 4155 cm1 for the ortho and
para H2, respectively. The assignment of Gribov et al. thus reﬂects the increased
weakening of the HH bond strength expected by moving from the adduct formed
on a ﬁve-coordinated, Mg5c
2+ ion (regular (100) surface site), through the complex
formed on a four-coordinated Mg4c
2+ ion (step site), to the adduct formed on a three
coordinated Mg3c
2+ ion (corner site) (namely, D~
nðHHÞ38, 62, and 80 cm1,
respectively).
Beside these three bands, an additional fourth, much broader, band is clearly
visible at 4031 cm1 in the bold spectrum of Fig. 10a. In contrast to the previously
assigned bands, this component, undoubtedly associated with a new molecularly
adsorbed dihydrogen species characterized by an even greater weakening of the
HH bond, gradually decreased with time (solid curves, Fig. 10a). After 1 h of
contact at 20 K, the 4031 cm1 component was totally eroded (dotted curve, Fig.
10a), demonstrating the transient nature of this fourth molecular H2 surface adduct.
The progressive disappearance of the band at 4031 cm1 was accompanied by a
C. LAMBERTI et al.
20
[III
significant increase in intensity of two bands, at 3460 and 1306 cm1, in the n(OH)
and in the n(MgH) stretching regions, respectively (Figs 10b and 10c, respectively).
As these frequencies are very close to those already observed in the room temper-
ature experiments and ascribed to Family I (Fig. 9), the experiment of Gribov et al.
(124) demonstrates that the splitting of H2 and the consequent formation of the
hydrides and hydroxyls groups belonging to Family I passes through the formation
of a transient molecular adduct characterized by a n(HH) of 4031 cm1. The pos-
sibility of detecting this band only at 20 K and its behavior with time imply that the
activation energy associated with the H2 splitting reaction (DEA-C+D in Fig. 1) is
negligible at room temperature, whereas it becomes comparable to (slightly higher
than) kT at 20 K. In contrast, the formation of the hydrides and hydroxyl groups
belonging to Family II was still almost instantaneous, even at 20 K, implying a
DEA-C+D oo kT even at 20 K, and thus explaining the impossibility of detecting
the intermediate molecular adduct under these conditions.
C. PRESSURE-DEPENDENT IR SPECTROSCOPY OF HYDROGEN ADSORBED AT 20 K ON
MgO MICROCRYSTALS OF VARIOUS SURFACE AREAS
In the same work, Gribov et al. (124) also investigated the effect of surface defects
on the reactivity of MgO toward H2 splitting. The IR spectra of hydrogen adsorbed
4150
4100
4050
4000
(a)
0.1 a.u.
Absorbance
Wavenumber / cm-1
3500
3450
(c)
(b)
1350
1300
1250
FIG. 10. Dependence on the contact time of the spectrum of H2 adsorbed at 20 K on high-surface-area
MgO (230 m2 g1). For clarity, only the n(HH) (4160–3950 cm1) region and the n(OH) (3520–3380 cm1)
and the n(MgH) (1360–1260 cm1) regions of Family I are shown (parts a, b and c, respectively), as the
n(OH) and n(MgH) modes of Family II do not show any appreciable time dependence. Bold line:
immediately after the dosing of 1010 Pa of H2 onto the sample pre-cooled at 20 K. Heavy dotted line:
after 1 h of contact at 20 K. Light lines: intermediate contact times. The arrows show the evolution of the
spectra with time. (Adapted with permission from Gribov et al. (124)).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
21
III]
at 20 K on high-surface-area (230 m2 g1), sintered (40 m2 g1), and smoke
(10 m2 g1) MgO samples are shown as a function of hydrogen coverage y in parts
(a), (b), and (c) of Fig. 11, respectively. To discriminate between contact time
(Section III.B) and PH2 effects, Gribov et al. (124) adopted the following exper-
imental strategy. For the three MgO samples, a PH2 of 1.3 kPa was initially dosed
onto the samples at 20 K, and an elapsed time of up to 1 h was adopted. Once the
IR spectra did not show any further evolution with time (Section III.B), then the
authors started to progressively reduce PH2 to less than 101 Pa (from top to bottom
in each part of Fig. 11).
Even superﬁcial inspection of the three sets of data reported in Fig. 11 (note that
the ordinate scales of parts (a) and (c) of Fig. 11 differ by one order of magnitude)
demonstrates the dramatic decrease of the surface coverages of both hydride and
hydroxyl groups formed upon H2 adsorption on samples having decreasing surface
areas. The reduction of the density of surface defects as the surface area decreases is
thus evident. On the smoke MgO sample, only the bands characterizing molecularly
(a)
Absorbance
0.2 a.u.
Wavenumber /cm-1
0.05 a.u.
4250
4000
3750
3500
1350
1300
0.02 a.u.
(c)
(b)
FIG. 11. Pressure dependence of the IR spectra of H2 adsorbed at 20 K on high-surface-area
(230 m2 g1), sintered (40 m2 g1), and smoke (10 m2 g1) MgO samples, parts (a), (b), and (c), respec-
tively. The upper curve of each series of spectra has been collected after an elapsed time allowing the
surface species to reach the equilibrium conditions and corresponds to the maximum H2 coverage
(PH2 ¼ 1010 kPa), while the bottom spectrum has been recorded after prolonged outgassing at 20 K
(PH2o101 Pa). All spectra have been vertically shifted for the sake of clarity. Note that the ordinate
scale is progressively expanding when passing from part (a) to part (c), to account for the loss of band
intensity with the decrease of the MgO surface area. (Adapted with permission from Gribov et al. (124).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
22
[III
adsorbed hydrogen species on the largely dominant (but unreactive) Mg5c
2+ surface
sites are visible. No traces of spectral features characterizing hydride and hydroxyl
groups, which are formed on the highly defective surface sites, are evident.
D. TEMPERATURE-DEPENDENT IR SPECTROSCOPY OF HYDROGEN ADSORBED ON
HIGH-SURFACE-AREA MgO
D.1. Site-Speciﬁc Adsorption Energy for Molecularly Adsorbed Hydrogen Adducts
In Section III.C, we reviewed the effect that a variation of PH2 has on the IR
spectra of the MgO/H2 system when the molecularly bonded dihydrogen, hydroxyl,
and hydride surface species have reached equilibrium. In that experiment the ther-
modynamic parameter T was kept constant at 20 K. Gribov et al. (124), starting
from the same initial conditions, also performed experiments in which the PH2 was
kept constant and the temperature was progressively increased. In these experi-
ments, they observed the progressive desorption of the most labile species, which
are, in decreasing order of stability, the molecular adducts Mg5c
2+?H2, Mg4c
2+?H2,
and Mg3c
2+?H2. In the ﬁrst step of temperature increase, the IR of the three ad-
ducts did not show any variation, a result that implies that all the available surface
sites had already been engaged by H2. For each site-speciﬁc IR band, the integrated
area under such conditions (Amax) was used to measure the site coverage y(T) as a
function of T according to the relationship y(T) ¼ A(T)/Amax, where A(T) is the
integrated area measured at T. By monitoring the decrease of A(T), Gribov et al.
(124) evaluated for any T and for any site the fraction of occupied [y(T)] and
unoccupied sites [1y(T)] as a function of T. The equilibrium constant of the
adsorption process (Kads) at any surface site and for any given temperature can be
obtained, according to the Langmuir approximation, as follows: Kads ¼ y(T)/
[(1y(T)) * PH2]. According to the van’t Hoff equation, Fig. 12 shows the
dependence of ln(Kads), for each species, plotted against 1/T giving the enthalpy of
adsorption (13,26,135–139). The good linear correlation in all cases reﬂects the
validity of the model within the experimental temperature range. The resulting-
speciﬁc adsorption energies (in kJ mol1) for the formation of molecular adducts
are as follows: 3.6 for Mg5c
2+?H2 on regular (1 0 0) planes; 4.6 for Mg4c
2+?H2 on
edges, and 7.5 for Mg3c
2+?H2 on corners (124).
D.2. Concluding Remarks and Assignment of Hydroxyl and Hydride Species
The effect of H2 dosage at room temperature has been summarized in Section
III.A, and the analogous isothermal experiments performed at 20 K have been
discussed in Section III.C. The room temperature experiment allowed previous
authors to single out the presence of Families I and II of surface hydroxyl and
hydride species (Fig. 9), and the experiments conducted at 20 K allowed Gribov
et al. to observe the transient molecularly adsorbed H2 precursor of Family I species
(Fig. 10) and, thus, to establish an energetic scale in the activation barrier of the
heterolytic H2 dissociation (Scheme 2) between Families I and II.
The resulting picture is, however, still incomplete, as a third family of hydroxyl
and hydride species escaped detection until the work of Gribov et al. (124). The
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
23
III]
authors dosed H2 at room temperature on a high-surface-area MgO sample and
reduced the temperature in steps to 20 K. Starting at about 180 K, a new pairs of
bands appeared at 3547 and 1430 cm1. They have been assigned to the n(MgH)
and n(OH) modes of a third family of hydroxyl and hydride species, as anticipated
in Fig. 9. This third family has been found to be resistant to a decrease in PH2 to
101 Torr at 20 K.
Combining the results of these time-, pressure-, and temperature-dependent IR
investigations with parallel high-resolution TEM and AFM investigations, Gribov
et al. (124) were able to assign the three families of hydroxyl and hydride species
summarized in Fig. 9. Without entering in the details of the arguments resulting in
the assignment, we report the conclusions here, by recalling that inverse anionic and
cationic corner sites play a key role in the H2 splitting. Family I corresponds to
H+ coordinated to three O2 surface ions and to H coordinated to two surface
Mg2+ ions. Family II combines H+ coordinated to one O2 surface ion with
H coordinated to three surface Mg2+ ions. Finally, Family III corresponds to H+
coordinated to two O2 surface ions and H coordinated to one surface Mg2+ ion.
0.007
0.014
0.021
0.028
-4
0
4
 H2/Mg3c    :  7.5 kJ/mol
2+
Ln ( Kads )
1/T (K-1)
 H2/Mg4c    :  4.6 kJ/mol
2+
 H2/Mg5c    :  3.6 kJ/mol
2+
FIG. 12. Dependence of the ln(Kads) as a function of (1/T) for H2 molecularly adsorbed at the surface
of high-surface-area MgO on different cationic sites: Mg2þ
3C (triangles), Mg2þ
4C (squares), and Mg2þ
5C (cir-
cles). In the top part the adsorption enthalpies obtained for the various sites are given in kJ mol1.
(Adapted with permission from Gribov et al. (124).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
24
[III
IV. Reactions Catalyzed by Brønsted Acid Sites: The MTO Process
and Oligomerization of Unsaturated Hydrocarbons
A. THE MTO PROCESS
A.1. Mechanism of Methanol-to-Hydrocarbon Catalysis
Proton-donor sites in zeolites are well-deﬁned active sites in acid-catalyzed
reactions. The acid strengths of zeolites, considered nearly equivalent to that
corresponding to the ﬁrst proton dissociation in concentrated H2SO4 (140), make
these materials good catalysts for a variety of reactions. Proton-donor sites catalyze
hydrocarbon rearrangements (such as cracking, hydrogenation, dehydrogenation,
and isomerization). Some reactions require an induction time, during which the
proton-donor species gives rise to more complex species that act as the catalytic
sites. A full understanding of the mechanism of this kind of reaction can be
extremely challenging, as indicated by the methanol-to-hydrocarbons (MTH)
reaction.
This process represents a part of a possible route for the upgrading of natural gas
or coal to higher value products, such as gasoline or small alkenes (141,142). Small
alkenes may serve as feedstocks for several petrochemical processes. Natural gas or
coal may be transformed into synthesis gas (CO and H2) by steam reforming,
gasiﬁcation, or autothermal reforming, and the synthesis gas is subsequently con-
verted into methanol in the presence of a Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 catalyst. Methanol may
then be converted into a mixture of hydrocarbons in the presence of acidic zeolites
or zeotype catalysts (141). Mobil Oil Company was the ﬁrst to discover and develop
catalysts (zeolites) for this technology, resulting in the methanol-to-gasoline (MTG)
process, in which methanol is converted into gasoline in the presence of HZSM-5.
Later, Norsk Hydro and UOP developed the MTO variant of the reaction, whereby
ethene and propene are the main products formed in the presence of the SAPO-34
zeotype catalyst. The HSAPO-34 catalyst is a silico-alumino-phosphate zeotype
material with fairly large cages (about 7  10 A
˚ ) connected by 8-ring windows (3.8 A
˚
in diameter). The narrow pore openings give rise to product shape selectivity, and
only small linear alkenes may diffuse through the apertures and out of the catalyst
crystals. An MTO plant is expected to come on stream in Nigeria soon, as part of a
natural gas-to-polymer project.
Although the MTO process has been known for nearly 30 years, the reaction
mechanism is still a matter of debate (140–142). Attention was ﬁrst focused on how
two or more C1 entities (e.g., methanol, dimethyl ether, and trimethyloxonium ions)
could react so that CC bonds are formed (141). However, 10 years ago, evidence
appeared indicating that the reaction proceeds mainly by a mechanism involving a
pool of adsorbed hydrocarbons that is continuously adding methanol and splitting
off ethene, propene, and possibly even higher homologues (143–145). This hydro-
carbon pool was initially not speciﬁed further, being described as a ‘‘carbonaceous’’
species, located in the catalyst pores, where methanol is added and alkenes are
eliminated. A simplistic illustration of the proposed hydrocarbon pool mechanism
is given in Scheme 3.
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
25
IV]
However, in the past few years it has become clear that polymethylbenzenes play
a central role in the hydrocarbon pool mechanism and are essential parts of the
catalytic cycle. Haw et al. (146) in 2000 showed that cyclopentenyl cations might
play an important role in the MTH reaction, and that they are easily transformed
into benzene derivatives. In the same year, Mikkelsen et al. (147) showed that the
formation of ethene and propene in the MTH reaction takes place via an arene or
some arene derivative.
In this context, the importance of clarifying the formation of carbocationic me-
thyl-substituted benzenes and deﬁning their stability in the zeolitic pores is obvious;
sensitive techniques that are able to detect intermediate species are required. In the
following section, we demonstrate the potential value of FTIR spectroscopy in the
determination of the stability of carbocationic methyl-substituted benzenes in a
zeolite, which are the active catalytic centers in the MTO process. These results are
the starting point for investigations of the more complex reaction mechanism
characterizing the MTO process.
A.2. Carbocationic Methyl-Substituted Benzenes in Zeolites
On the basis of the evaluation of the proton afﬁnity (860.6 kJ mol1 for hexa-
methylbenzene and 845.6 kJ mol1 for tetramethylbenzene (148)), the possibility of
obtaining hexamethylbenzene and tetramethylbenzene as carbocations in the pores
of a zeolite had been excluded. However, Haw and co-workers (146) recently dem-
onstrated by means of NMR spectroscopy that H-heptamethylbenzene+ may be
formed in the cavities of a Hb zeolite. H-hexamethylbenzene+ and H-tetramethyl-
benzene+ ions have been observed in zeolite Hb by a combination of IR and
UV–visible spectroscopies (149,150). DRS UV–Vis- and FTIR spectroscopy proved
to be techniques well suited to verify, under reaction conditions, the existence of
stable H-hexamethylbenzene+ and H-tetramethylbenzene+ in the zeolite. Owing
to the symmetry properties of H-hexamethylbenzene and H-tetramethylbenzene,
characteristic changes of their vibrational features were observed when the
aromatic system was perturbed upon protonation. In the same study it was found
that the lower polymethylbenzene homologues, such as 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene
(PA ¼ 836.2 kJ mol1), did not undergo appreciable protonation in Hb zeolite. On
the basis of these results, a proton afﬁnity limit for hydrocarbons that form stable
CH3OH
CH2 n
C2H4
C4H8
C3H6
Coke
Saturated hydrocarbons
SCHEME 3.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
26
[IV
carbenium ions in zeolites with acidic properties similar to that of zeolite Hb has
been established. We note, however, that such a basicity limit may be restricted to
species that experience similar steric constraints within the host zeolite.
Bjorgen et al. (150) observed H-tetramethylbenzene+ in zeolite Hb by introduc-
ing 1,2,4,5-tetramethylbenzene (durene) directly from the gas phase (at 300 K) into
the IR cell. Figure 13 displays a series of IR spectra of zeolite Hb with decreasing
coverages of durene obtained by evacuation, ﬁrst at 300 K (spectra 210) and
ﬁnally at 400 K for 30 min (spectrum 11). Spectrum 12 refers to the zeolite prior to
contact with durene, and spectrum 13 presents the vibrational features of durene.
The authors attributed the four bands appearing in the n(OH) region of the
uncontacted zeolite (spectrum 12) as follows: the band at 3782 cm1 is ascribed to
Al–OH species, the sharp and intense peak at 3746 cm1 is attributed to isolated
Si–OH groups, and the bands at and 3667 and 3610 cm1 are assigned to defective
and regular Brønsted acid sites, respectively. The two components at higher fre-
quency are characterized by a negligible acidity, while the remaining two represent
rather strongly acidic sites. Prominent vibrational perturbations of the different
hydroxyl groups in zeolite Hb were observed when durene was adsorbed. Focusing
40000
30000
20000
3800
3600
3400
3200
3000
2800
13
1
12
11
10
1700 1600 1500 1400
11
13
0.5 a.u.
Wavenumber (cm-1)
0.2 K.M.units
FIG. 13. FTIR spectra of Hb (Si/Al ¼ 12) upon 1,2,4,5-tetramethylbenzene (durene) adsorption.
Spectrum 1: highest coverage of durene. Spectra 2–10: evacuation at 300 K. Spectrum 11: evacuation at
400 K. Spectrum 12: pre-treated Hb prior to adsorption. Spectrum 13: durene diluted in a wafer of KBr.
In the region 1700–1350 cm1 spectra 1–11 are plotted in difference with respect to spectrum 12. In the
inset the DRS-UV–Vis spectra of durene adsorbed on a non-acidic Hb (Si/Al ¼ 210) and on an acidic Hb
(Si/Al ¼ 12) (dashed and full curves, respectively) are compared with the spectrum of the less basic 1,3,5-
trimethylbenzene on Hb (Si/Al ¼ 12) (dotted curve). In both FTIR and UV–Vis spectra the ﬁngerprints
of H-tetramethylbenzene+ ion are indicated by an arrow. (Adapted with permission from Bjorgen et al.
(150).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
27
IV]
the attention on the highest durene coverage (spectrum 1 of Fig. 13), we see that the
silanol band (3746 cm1) becomes almost completely eroded, with the simultaneous
growth of an intense absorption at 3563 cm1 ðD~
n ¼ 183 cm1Þ: The interaction
between durene and the Brønsted acid sites, originally absorbing at 3667 and
3610 cm1, is indicated by a broad absorption in the 35003000 cm1 range. The
bands between 3100 and 2700 cm1 represent symmetric and antisymmetric n(CH)
modes of durene. The low-frequency segment (1700–1350 cm1) of Fig. 13 shows
the ring modes and the d(CH) modes of the adsorbate; the band at 1604 cm1
(evidenced by an arrow) is ascribed to the H-tetramethylbenzene+ ion (144,147).
This absorption arises from the symmetry lowering induced by protonation on the
aromatic ring and cannot be observed for the neutral durene species, as is shown
clearly by spectrum 13 in Fig. 13. When the highest durene coverage had been
reached (spectrum 1), the sample was ﬁrst evacuated at 300 K, giving the series of
spectra 2–10 in Fig. 13. This procedure removed the major part of weakly adsorbed
durene, as shown by the decrease of, for example, the 3563 cm1 band and the
simultaneous restoration of the silanol band (3746 cm1). After a ﬁnal evacuation at
400 K (spectrum 11), the silanol band was more than 90% regained. In contrast to
the silanol sites, virtually all the Brønsted acid sites were still engaged in an
interaction after the evacuation at 400 K. The ﬁngerprint band of the H-tetrame-
thylbenzene+ ion at 1604 cm1 was also nearly unaffected by the evacuation
procedure, conﬁrming its relationship to the Brønsted acid sites.
DRS-UV–Vis spectroscopy offers additional and complementary evidence of the
protonation of durene in zeolite Hb (inset, Fig. 13). The UV–Vis spectra of durene
adsorbed on a non-acidic b zeolite (Si/Al ¼ 210, molar) shows a band with a max-
imum around 35 000 cm1 (dashed curve in the inset). This band is related to the
p-electron system of the aromatic ring, conﬁrming that only neutral species were
present. The spectrum obtained after the adsorption of durene on the Brønsted
acidic zeolite Hb (full curve in the inset), indicates the appearance of new distinct
charge transfer transition at 26 500 cm1 (indicated by the arrow). Protonation of
durene removes degeneration in the energy levels, generating the appearance of this
new transition which represents the ﬁngerprint of H-tetramethylbenzene+ in the
UV–Vis spectrum. The frequency of the ﬁngerprint band agrees well with that of
H-hexamethylbenzene+ in zeolite Hb and various benzenium ions in superacidic
media (142,151). This species is stable even after evacuation at room temperature,
but it is destroyed upon interaction with a strong base such as NH3. When the less
basic 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene was adsorbed in zeolite Hb (dotted curve in the inset
of Fig. 13), the band associated with protonated aromatic rings exhibited an
intensity at least an order of magnitude less than that observed in the spectrum of
H-tetramethylbenzene+ ions (solid curve), demonstrating that the same ratio holds
for the concentration of protonated species in the two experiments. Thus, by mov-
ing downwards in the polymethylbenzene series, the lower limit in the PA required
for proton transfer from the zeolite to the hydrocarbons was found (150).
The reactivity of tetramethylbenzene and trimethylbenzene can be discussed by
adopting the reaction scheme reported in Fig. 2, provided that only the ﬁrst two
steps are taken into account: ‘H++B-‘H+?B-‘BH+. In this case, the
molecule B is represented either by tetramethylbenzene or trimethylbenzene. In the
C. LAMBERTI et al.
28
[IV
case of tetramethylbenzene interacting with protons in b zeolites, DEPT is smaller
than kT, resulting in the facile formation of the protonated species. The resultant
intrazeolitic tetramethylbenzene+ ion, acting as counter-ion for the negatively
charged framework, is a rather stable species, as demonstrated by its stability upon
outgassing of the sample at 400 K (150).
The relevance of the foregoing work by Bjorgen et al. (150) to the understanding
of the mechanisms involved in the MTO process consists in its demonstration of
the high concentration and stability of tetramethylbenzene+ in b zeolite, thus
supporting its role as catalytic center according to the models reported in Scheme 3,
where (CH2)n should be replaced by tetramethylbenzene+. In contrast, in the case
of trimethylbenzene, only the formation of a hydrogen-bonded adduct was
observed, conﬁrming a value of DEPT>kT.
B. OLIGOMERIZATION OF ACETYLENIC AND OLEFINIC HYDROCARBONS IN ZEOLITE
CAVITIES
In this section, we discuss experiments concerning acid-catalyzed oligomerization
of unsaturated hydrocarbons taking place in the intrazeolite spaces, as another
example of the application of vibrational spectroscopy to the investigation of
chemical processes involving transient species. The energy proﬁle associated with
this kind of reaction is that discussed in the introduction (Section I.B) and sum-
marized in Fig. 2b. In particular, the following case studies are reviewed: (i)
oligomerization of acetylene, methylacetylene, and ethylacetylene on HZSM-5 (152)
(Section IV.B.1), and (ii) oligomerization of alkenes on zeolites with a various pore
structures/topologies (6) (Section IV.B.2). We show that when the oligomerization
experiments are carried out at room temperature, the time scale of these intrazeoli-
tic processes varies from 101 s (substituted ethenes and acetylenes) to 102 s (ethene
and acetylene) (152), thus inﬂuencing the possibility for detection of transient
species by FTIR spectroscopy.
B.1. Acetylenic Molecules Formed in HZSM-5 at Room Temperature
Acetylenic molecules undergo oligomerization in the cavities of acidic zeolites,
giving rise to carbocationic oligomers characterized by intense colors. It has been
argued that the mechanism of the reaction can be represented by the scheme shown
in Fig. 2b, which, in the case of acetylene, becomes that shown in Scheme 4 (152).
According to this scheme, the ﬁrst products formed upon interaction of acetylene
with the Brønsted acid sites of the zeolite are the hydrogen-bonded precursors.
Their formation is expected to be exothermic and not associated with an appre-
ciable activation barrier (DEB negligible with respect to kT, Fig. 2b). In contrast, the
protonation step and the further monomer insertion are activated processes (DEPT
and DEB-2B>kT, Fig. 2b). The energy barriers associated with both steps strongly
depend on the type of the monomer and its basicity. The hydrogen-bonding in-
teraction involves the p-electron cloud of the triple bond of the acetylenic molecule;
the basicity of these compounds vary in the order: acetylene (ac) o methylacetylene
(methylac)oethylacetylene (ethylac). Consequently, the proton-transfer barrier
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
29
IV]
(DEPT, Fig. 2b) is expected to increase in the opposite direction (i.e., DEPT(ethy-
lac)oDEPT(methylac)oDEPT(ac)), whereas the opposite is expected for the
oligomerization rate. Therefore, the investigation of the oligomerization reaction
of various acetylenic molecules on Brønsted acid sites offers the possibility of
showing which kinds of species can be detected by FTIR spectroscopy, depending
on the different values of the activation energies for proton transfer.
The oligomerization of acetylene, methylacetylene, and ethylacetylene has been
investigated extensively by FTIR spectroscopy (152–155). In 1993, Bordiga et al.
(152) reported an FTIR investigation of the oligomerization of acetylene, methyl-
acetylene, and ethylacetylene in HZSM-5. The authors showed that at room
temperature the processes are very slow, fast, and very fast, for acetylene, methyl-
acetylene, and ethylacetylene, respectively. Starting with acetylene, because of the
low reaction rate, the observation of the hydrogen-bonded precursor was possible
with conventional FTIR spectroscopy (solid line spectrum, Fig. 14 and Scheme 5).
This experiment was successful because the precursor concentration was not
substantially altered by the oligomerization reaction during the time needed for
collecting a conventional FTIR spectrum. The vibrational features of the adsorbed
acetylene are evident in the solid line spectrum in Fig. 14; the sharp band at
1950 cm1 (see arrow) is assigned to the C  C stretching mode, and the corre-
sponding C–H stretching band appeared at 3250 cm1, superimposed on a broader
composite spectrum caused by hydroxyl groups which were perturbed by the
hydrogen bonding. Observation of the hydrogen-bonded precursor formed from
methylacetylene was not possible at room temperature without the help of fast
FTIR, because the concentration of the precursor fell to essentially zero within
about 1 min (the vibrational features are summarized in Scheme 5). For ethylacety-
lene, the oligomerization process is so fast that the observation of the hydrogen-
bonded precursor with conventional spectroscopy is not possible.
Scheme 5 is a summary of the experimental frequencies of the n(CH), n(C  C),
and n(OH) modes for the 1:1 p-bonded acetylene and methylacetylene complexes.
Notice that the shift of ~
nðC  CÞ and ~
nðOHÞ bands is always negative with respect
to the free hydrocarbon molecules (~
nðC  CÞ ¼ 1974 and 2142 cm1 for acetylene
and methylacetylene, respectively) or Brønsted acid group, respectively. The shift of
the ~
nðOHÞ is a normal consequence of hydrogen-bonding and has been abundantly
documented for many bases adsorbed molecularly in zeolites with proton afﬁnities
in the range of 420840 kJ mol1 (20,21,156–161). Furthermore, the nðC  CÞ
O
Al
Si
H
C2H2
O
Al
Si
H
HC
CH
O
Al
Si
2HC+
CH
O
Al
Si
+
-
+
-
(C2nH2n+1)+
H-bonded 
precursor
protonation step
formation of 
conjugated polyenic
carbocations
nC2H2
SCHEME 4.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
30
[IV
mode of acetylene becomes IR active in the adsorbed state because of the reduced
symmetry. The downward frequency shift of the nðC  CÞ mode in both complexes
results from the reduced density of charge of the carbon–carbon triple bond at-
tributed to the hydrogen-bond interaction. The larger shifts of ~
nðC  CÞ and ~
nðOHÞ
observed for methylacetylene (D~
nðC  CÞ ¼ 192 cm1) with respect to acetylene
(D~
nðC  CÞ ¼ 24 cm1) are explained on the basis of the inductive effect of the
methyl group, which makes methylacetylene a stronger base. This, in turn, accounts
for the observed protonation rates, which are in the order C2H2oC3H4oC4H6
(vide supra).
The evolution with time of the IR spectra of oligomeric species is reported in
Fig. 15(a), (b), and (c) for acetylene, methylacetylene, and ethylacetylene,
O
Al
Si
H
HC
CH
O
Al
Si
H
H-C
C-C-H
H
H
ca. 3260 cm-1
1950 cm-1
3090 cm-1
1950 cm-1
3290 cm-1
in H-ZSM-5
in H-ZSM-5
(∆v = -24 cm-1)  
 ( ∆v = -192 cm-1) 
SCHEME 5.
FIG. 14. Room temperature FTIR spectra of H-ZSM-5 before (dotted line) and after (full line)
contact with acetylene for 7 s. The arrow indicates the n(C  C) mode of adsorbed acetylene. (Repro-
duced with permission from Bordiga et al. (152).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
31
IV]
FIG. 15. Time-resolved FTIR spectra of the acetylene (a), methylacetylene (b), and ethylacetylene (c)
oligomerization at room temperature on H-ZSM-5. All spectra are shown after background subtraction.
The insets report the correspondent UV–Vis spectra of the oligomerized systems at increasing reaction
times (from bottom to top). (Adapted with permission from Bordiga et al. (152).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
32
[IV
respectively. In all three parts of Fig. 15, the bands appearing at frequencies higher
than 1900 cm1 are attributed to the stretching of the C  C groups belonging to
the hydrogen-bonding adducts (Scheme 5), both with Brønsted acid sites (band
around 1950 cm1, which is slowly consumed with time because of the oligomerizat-
ion reaction) and with isolated silanol groups (bands at about 2110 cm1).
The complex group of bands developing at frequencies lower than 1700 cm1 is a
manifestation of the C ¼ C groups belonging to the charged oligomeric chains of
variable length growing in the zeolite channels (152–155). The gradual ﬁlling of the
pores with polymeric structures (162) is accompanied by a small but definite
frequency shift of the overtone of the skeletal band at 1900 cm1. This observation
explains the appearance in the difference spectra of the sinusoidal features indicated
with an arrow in Fig. 15. In the insets of Fig. 15, the modiﬁcation with time of the
UV–Vis spectra is also reported, to better demonstrate that the oligomeric species
are charged polyenic structures characterized by an extended system of conjugated
p-bonds (152).
The most relevant spectroscopic data characterizing the oligomeric species are
reported in Scheme 6 for acetylene and in Table II for methylacetylene and ethyl-
acetylene. The analysis of the spectral features shown in Fig. 15 and summarized in
Table II suggests that the broad band with a maximum at 1500 cm1 is associated
with a family of medium-sized carbocationic species, those having high degrees of
polymerization being responsible for the tail at lower frequency. In contrast,
protonated monomers and dimers are responsible for the higher-frequency bands. It
is important that, because of the steric constrains imposed by the framework, the
maximum number n of repeat units in charged oligomers not exceed 6 and does not
depend on the type of monomer. Note that the repeat unit is (CH ¼ CR) (with
R ¼ H, CH3, or CH2CH3 for acetylene, methylacetylene, and ethylacetylene,
respectively); consequently, the number of skeletal carbon atoms in the oligomeric
chain is 2n. This is another clear example illustrating how the steric constraints
imposed by the three-dimensional structure of the zeolite cause an abrupt increase of
the activation barrier associated with the monomer insertion, thus determining the size
of the trapped species (Fig. 2b); in this case, the energy barrier for the monomer
insertion becomes very high for n>6. The subsequent termination step is character-
ized by too high an energy barrier (DEt>>kT), so that only carbocationic oligomers
can be detected. It has been demonstrated, however, that the charged species formed
upon oligomerization readily react with ammonia, with a fast decoloration (152).
B.2. Oleﬁnic Hydrocarbons Formed in Various Protonic Zeolites
We now proceed to illustrate further the potential value of fast time-resolved
FTIR spectroscopy by discussing as case studies the oligomerization of ethene,
propene, and butene on zeolites characterized by a different pore structure and
topology (6,163). It is well known that ethene and propene oligomerization occurs
in the zeolite channels (164–166). On the basis of the results illustrated in Section
IV.B.1, it is conceivable that the oligomerization could be preceded by the forma-
tion of hydrogen-bonded complexes and that the strength of the hydrogen bonds
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
33
IV]
could be evaluated by measuring the perturbation of the O–H and C ¼ C stretching
modes. Similarly, it is also expected that the topology of the zeolite channels and
pores should have a distinct effect on the length and on the branching of the
positively charged oligomers. According to these observations, in Section IV.B.2.1
we discuss the contrasting behavior of ethene, propene, and butene in zeolites
characterized by a relatively low Brønsted site concentration and by a three-di-
mensional (zeolite Hb) or two-dimensional (HZSM-5) set of interconnected chan-
nels. In Section IV.B.2.2, we discuss the changes in the oligomerization process
O
Al
Si
H
C
C
H
H
O
Al
Si
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
H
O
Al
Si
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
H
O
Al
Si
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
C
C
H
H
H
-
+
monomer
C2H3+
-
+
dimer
C4H5+
-
+
trimer
C6H7+
-
+
polymer
(CnH2n+1)+
ν(C=C) = ca. 1500 cm-1
π−π∗(C=C) = 
18000-8000 cm-1
ν(C=C) = ca. 1580 cm-1
π−π∗(C=C) = 25000-23500 cm-1
ν(C=C) = ca. 1640 cm-1
π−π∗(C=C) = 33000-29000 cm-1
ν(C=C) = ca. 1702 cm-1
π−π∗(C=C) = 39000-38000 cm-1
in H-ZSM-5
SCHEME 6.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
34
[IV
when it is conducted in a zeolite characterized by a much higher density of proton-
donor sites and by a one-dimensional set of channels (H-mordenite).
B.2.1. Ethene, Propene, and Butene Oligomerization in Zeolites with Three-Dimen-
sional or Two-Dimensional Sets of Interconnected Channels.
Spoto et al. (6) em-
ployed the FTIR technique to investigate the interaction of ethene with HZSM-5.
The sequence of spectra shown in Fig. 16 was obtained when dosing a ﬁxed pressure
of ethene at room temperature and recording a spectrum every 6.8 s. It is evident
that in these short-time intervals there was a dramatic change of the spectral
features that would be completely lost by operating under the conventional (non-
time-resolved) acquisition conditions (note that spectrum 19 in Fig. 16 corresponds
to a total contact time of only about 130 s).
The following observations can be made regarding the spectra as shown in Fig.
16. The spectrum obtained after ca. 7 s of contact time (curve 1) shows, in addition
to the bands of gaseous ethene, the vibrational manifestations of the adsorbed
ethene (Table III). In the CH stretching region (Fig. 16a), the ~
naðCH2Þ appears at
2974cm1 (D~
n ¼ 16 cm1), and the ~
naðCH2Þ is red-shifted by –11 cm1 (spectral
region not shown in the ﬁgure). In the lower frequency region (Fig. 16b), the spec-
trum is dominated by three bands, at 1612cm1 (D~
n ¼ 11 cm1), attributed to the
n(C ¼ C) mode, and at 1440cm1 (D~
n ¼ 4 cm1) and 1340cm1 (D~
n ¼ 2 cm1),
both associated with the d(CH2) modes. The appearance of the spectral features
associated with adsorbed ethene was accompanied by the loss of the bands at
3660cm1 (~
nðOHÞ of Al(OH) defective groups) and 3609cm1 (~
nðOHÞ of Si(OH)Al
structural Brønsted acid sites) and by the formation of new broader absorptions
TABLE II
Summary of the n(C ¼ C) Vibrational Mode (Observed by IR Spectroscopy) and of the p-p* Electronic
Transition (Observed by UV–Vis Spectroscopy) for Carbocationic Species Derived from Acetylene,
Methylacetylene, and Ethylacetylene Oligomerization on HZSM-5
Carbocationic species
~
n (C ¼ C)/cm1
p–p*/cm1
Acetylene
C2H3
+
1702
39 000–38 000
C4H5
+
1640
33 000–29 000
C6H7
+
1580
25 000–23 500
C8H9
+
1565
20 500–19 500
C10H11
+
ca. 1550
18 500
C2nH2n+1
+
ca. 1500
8000
Methylacetylene
CH3C2H2
+
1680
38 500–25 000
(CH3)2C4H3
+
1626
30 000–27 500
(CH3)3C6H4
+
1515
24 700–21 300
(CH3)4C8H5
+
1480–1440
19 300
(CH3)5C10H6
+
1480–1440
16 500
Ethylacetylene
C2H5C2H2
+
1675
37 000–33 000
(C2H5)2C4H3
+
1620–1610
28 000–25 000
(C2H5)3C6H4
+
1520–1510
23 000
(C2H5)4C8H5
+
1520–1510
19 000
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
35
IV]
(FWHME200 cm1) at 3369 and 3220cm1 (spectral region not shown in Fig. 16a).
All these observations can be explained easily on the basis of the formation of 1:1
p-complexes structurally similar to those depicted for acetylenic hydrocarbons
(Scheme 5). Furthermore, in this case the reduced symmetry of the adsorbed molecule
accounts for the activation of the n(C ¼ C) mode, and the reduced density of charge
of the carbon–carbon double bond accounts for the red-shift. Notice that these shifts
are smaller than in the case of acetylene molecules, in agreement with the lower
proton afﬁnity of the ethene. For contact times longer than 7 s (curves 2–19, Fig. 16),
besides the bands already mentioned, attributed to the hydrogen-bonded precursors,
new features associated with saturated CH2 and CH3 groups gradually developed; the
assignments are given in Table III. The appearance of the characteristic modes of
saturated CH2 and CH3 groups is a clear indication of protonation and oligomeriza-
tion, as depicted in Scheme 7a. Note that +C4H9 stands for all the possible isomers
illustrated in Scheme 7b, which are in equilibrium.
Detailed information concerning the reaction mechanism and the nature of
the products can be gained by close inspection of the spectral sequence of Fig. 16.
First, the negligible decrease in intensity of the bands associated with the
FIG. 16. FTIR spectra, recorded in fast acquisition conditions, showing the initial stages of the ethene
oligomerization on H-ZSM-5. Spectra were recorded every 6.8 s (the last spectrum 19, corresponds to a
total contact time of 130 s). The spectrum of gaseous ethene is shown at the bottom for comparison. Part
(a) reports the ~
nðCH3Þ and ~
nðCH2Þ region, while part (b) reports the ~
nðC ¼ CÞ, d(CH3), and d(CH2)
region. The vibrational modes of CH3 and CH2 groups of the growing oligomers are drawn in full and
dashed lines, respectively. The bands associated with ethene p-complexes are indicated with dotted lines.
(Adapted with permission from Spoto et al. (6).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
36
[IV
hydrogen-bonded precursors (see, in particular, the peaks at 1612, 1440, and
1340 cm1, labeled with dotted lines) suggests that the number of oligomeric chains
formed in the time interval considered should be very small. Furthermore, if the
very early stages are considered (spectra 2–4, i.e., a time interval between ca. 14 and
28 s), a single weak band is evident at 1382 cm1, associated with the ds(CH3) mode,
whereas in the successive spectra (spectra 5–19, i.e., a time interval between ca. 28
TABLE III
Most Relevant Spectroscopic Features of C2H4 p-Bonded Precursors and of the Oligomers Growing in
HZSM-5 in the First 130 s of the Reaction
IR mode
Frequency/cm1
H-bonded C2H4
Oligomers
na(CH2)
3095 (11)
2940
ns(CH2)
2974 (16)
2866
na(CH3)
—
2960
ns(CH3)
—
2876
n(C ¼ C)
1612 (11)
—
da(CH2)
1440 (4)
1469
ds(CH2)
1340 (2)
1442
da(CH3)
1460
ds(CH3)
1382
For the C2H4 p-bonded complexes the D~
n values with respect to C2H4 gas are indicated in parentheses.
O
Al
Si
H
H2C
CH2
O
Al
Si
H
C2H4
O
Al
Si
O
Al
Si
O
Al
Si
C2H4
C2H4
O
Al
Si
O
Al
Si
O
Al
Si
O
Al
Si
+C4H9
+CH2CH2CH2CH3
+CH2CH(CH3)2
CH3CHCH2CH3
+C(CH3)2
protonation
slow
chain
propagation
(a)
(b)
+C2H5
-
-
-
+CnH2n+1
-
-
+-
-
SCHEME 7.
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
37
IV]
and 130 s), a second component developed at 1366 cm1. As doubling of the
ds(CH3) mode is a spectroscopic ﬁngerprint of the presence of branched –CH(CH3)2
and –C(CH3)3 terminations, it can be concluded that in the ﬁrst stages of reaction
only linear products were formed and that branching occurred later (6). This con-
clusion is conﬁrmed by the observation of the I(CH2)/I(CH3) intensity ratio of the
CH2 and CH3 stretching modes within the ﬁrst 28 s, which was consistently greater
than 1. As the speciﬁc intensity of the CH3 stretching modes is known to be always
greater than that of CH2 groups (Section VI.C), it was concluded that the spectra
recorded in the 7–28 s interval are mainly attributed to linear +CH2CH3 monomeric
and +CH2(CH2)2CH3 dimeric species. Note that these two formulas (and those
shown in Scheme 7) correspond to fully ionic species, but that the real situation is
probably intermediate between a fully ionic and a fully covalent character.
For longer contact times (spectra from 5 to 19), chain propagation (indicated by
the growth of all the bands characterizing CH2 groups) was accompanied by
branching (indicated by the growth of the CH3 absorptions). Spoto et al. (6) also
found that the chain length of the oligomers nearly corresponds to the linear free
space available between two channel intersections of the two-dimensional pore
system of HZSM-5; this observation is attributed to the fact that the growth of the
chains is stopped at the channel intersection because they encounter either
oligomers, either growing or dead species. The ethene oligomerization in HZSM-5
therefore represents another nice example of how the spatial restrictions imposed by
the framework of the zeolite can direct the chemical processes occurring in the
intrazeolitic regions (Fig. 2b).
In the same work discussed above, Spoto et al. (6) performed a similar fast
FTIR experiment to investigate the propene oligomerization on HZSM-5. Brieﬂy,
the authors demonstrated that, to observe all the reaction steps (hydrogen-bonded
precursor formation, protonation, and chain growth, Fig. 2b), an acquisition rate
as high as one spectrum every 1.5 s is needed. In fact, because of the inductive
effect of the CH3 group, which makes the propene C ¼ C bond much more prone
to the electrophilic attack by the ZSM-5 protons, the energy barrier for the
protonation (DEPT) is lower than in the case of ethene and, thus, the protonation
step is much faster. The situation is analogous to that reported for acetylene and
methylacetylene oligomerization in HZSM-5 (Section IV.B.1). Nevertheless,
under the experimental conditions, the formation and very rapid consumption
of the hydrogen-bonded precursors were still spectroscopically observable by the
evolution with time of the bands at 3070 (~
nðOHÞ; D~
n ¼ 539 cm1) and 1619 cm1
(~
nðC ¼ CÞ; D~
n ¼ 19 cm1).
1-Butene is expected to oligomerize at a higher rate than propene, so that the
observation of the precursor species at room temperature is expected to be
extremely difﬁcult. This expectation is demonstrated by the recent work of Bjorgen
et al. (163), who investigated the oligomerization of 1-butene in an Hb zeolite. The
reaction sequence is illustrated in Scheme 8, and it can be considered to be a
particular example of the general case shown in Fig. 2b. The reaction is suggested
to be initiated by an interaction between the acidic sites of the zeolite and the
p-electrons of 1-butene, resulting in a hydrogen-bonded precursor. The nature of
the reaction intermediates may range from such a weakly bound, partly protonated
C. LAMBERTI et al.
38
[IV
species, to a fully protonated species that is either bound covalently to the lattice as
an alkoxy group (as in the case represented in Scheme 8) or bound ionically to the
lattice as a carbenium ion.
Carbenium ions formed from species having a proton afﬁnity as low as the one
measured for 1-butene have not been observed in zeolites. As in the case of ethene,
illustrated above, C4H9 stands for all the possible isomers reported in Scheme 8 and
so on for every CnH2n+1 species. The termination step may be considered to be a
simple desorption process. Desorption may lead to the formation of any alkene
isomer, linear or branched, depending on the relative thermodynamic stability of
each product and the activation barrier of hydrogen and methyl shifts, respectively.
Bjorgen et al. (163) demonstrated that when 1-butene was adsorbed on Hb zeolite at
room temperature, the oligomerization occurred instantly, and the zeolite was im-
mediately ﬁlled with oligomeric material. The authors concluded that details of the
initial stages of the reaction and the subsequent chain growth cannot be extracted
from the data collected in such experiments. Only limited information about the
ﬁnal structures of the oligomers could be inferred.
To reduce the reaction rates and to follow each step of the reactions, Bjorgen
et al. adsorbed 1-butene on the samples at liquid-nitrogen temperature and
subsequently let the IR cell equilibrate thermally with the surroundings. The same
approach was applied years before by Geobaldo et al. (8) in the study of propene
oligomerization in H-mordenite (Section IV.B.2.2) and is the same described in
Section II.C for the NO decomposition over Cu-zeolites (Figs. 6–8). 1-Butene was
ﬁrst dosed onto the sample cooled to 100 K (note that under these conditions
propene condenses on the coldest part of the measurement cell without coming in
contact with the zeolite, as was the case for NO dosed onto Cu-exchanged zeolites,
vide supra Sections II.B.3 and II.C); the temperature of the cell was then allowed to
rise slowly from 100 K to room temperature and IR spectra were collected
continuously. The results of these temperature-programmed experiments are shown
in Fig. 17. The analysis of these results allowed the authors (a) to observe 1-butene
hydrogen-bonded adducts and (b) to draw some mechanistic conclusions about the
Al
Si
O H
Al
Si
O H
Al
Si
O C H
Al
Si
O C H
Al
Si
OH
Al
Si
OH
Al
Si
O H
Al
Si
O H
+
+
octene
+ octene
SCHEME 8.
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
39
IV]
oligomerization reaction. This information cannot be extracted when the reaction is
conducted at room temperature.
Starting with the ﬁrst point, at the lowest temperatures, 1-butene forms hydro-
gen-bonded adducts, both with the weakly acidic silanol groups (indicated by the
erosion of the band at 3746 cm1 and the concomitant growth of the band at
3568 cm1) and with the strongly acidic Brønsted sites (indicated by the growth of a
broad absorption in the 35002900 cm1 region). The double bond of 1-butene was
accordingly perturbed weakly by interaction with the silanol groups (band at
1639 cm1) and strongly by interaction with the Brønsted acid sites (band at
1629 cm1). These adducts were stable only at the lowest temperatures. The adduct
concentration soon reached a maximum when the temperature was increased and
readily leveled off and started to decline. Simultaneously, oligomeric chains were
formed, as evidenced by the intensity increase of the methylene bands at about 2930
and 2875 cm1, and by the appearance of two bands, at about 3698 and 3490 cm1,
attributed
to
the
interaction
of
the
saturated
chains
with
the
silanols
(D~
nðOHÞ ¼ 48 cm1) and the Brønsted acid sites (D~
nðOHÞ ¼ 120 cm1), respec-
tively. The methyl bands at 2967 and 1463 cm1 remained nearly constant through-
out this experiment, suggesting that the 1-butene oligomerization in Hb zeolite was
not accompanied by substantial branching.
B.2.2. Propene and Butene Oligomerization in the One-Dimensional Pore System of
H-Mordenite.
The energy barriers associated with oligomerization reactions can
be inﬂuenced by varying the zeolite framework and the density of acidic sites. When
3800 3600 3400 3200 3000 2800
Wavenumber (cm-1)
1700
1600
1500
1400
300 K
77 K
Increasing T
FIG. 17. FTIR spectra of 1-butene adsorption and oligmerization on Hb zeolite in the 77–300 K
temperature range. (Reproduced with permission from Bjorgen et al. (163).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
40
[IV
propene oligomerization takes place within the pores of H-mordenite, the process is
complex because of the importance of two inﬂuences that act synergistically. The
ﬁrst is the high density of proton-donor groups in H-mordenite, with a Si/Al atomic
ratio of approximately 5, much less than the values of 1220 characterizing zeolites
b and ZSM-5, discussed above. The second inﬂuence is the one-dimensional pore
structure of the mordenite framework. As the acid strength of hydroxyl groups in
mordenite right channels is comparable to that of the Brønsted acid sites of both
zeolite Hb and HZSM-5, the propene oligomerization reaction proceeds with a
similar rate for each single site reached by the reactants. This means that, at room
temperature, the probability that the ﬁrst propene molecules interact with the
Brønsted sites present at the entrance of the one-dimensional mordenite pores is
very high. The absence of alternative pathways for transport, as in zeolites with
three-dimensional pore structure, causes the mordenite to be susceptible to pore-
blocking by growing chains of product at the pore entrances, thus preventing access
of propene toward the catalytic sites located in the inner positions (8). This point is
demonstrated both by the low intensities of the C–H stretching bands of the
oligomeric chains and by the small decrease of the band attributed to strong
Brønsted acid sites (see Fig. 2 of Reference (8)). In contrast, all the sites are involved
in the reaction when the dosage of propene is performed at low temperature,
avoiding the start of the reaction and allowing the condensation of liquid propene
inside the channels (see Figs. 4 and 5 of Reference (8) and see the procedure
discussed for the 1-butene oligomerization, Section IV.B.2.1).
In the recent work mentioned above, Bjorgen et al. (163) also carried out
1-butene oligomerization on samples of H-mordenite and HMCM-22. They
observed a behavior similar to that discussed for propene in H-mordenite (i.e.,
limited accessibility of the inner Brønsted acid sites). By comparing these results
with those obtained in the case of the same reaction performed in an Hb zeolite
(Section IV.B.2.1), the authors observed a consistent difference in the ﬁnal
oligomeric products. In particular, in the case of H-mordenite and HMCM-22,
the oligomeric chains are characterized by a higher CH3/CH2 ratio, with respect
to zeolite Hb, testifying a higher degree of branching. These results demonstrate
that the lengths and the branching of the oligomeric species depend on the
zeolite topology: the chains in zeolite Hb grow most extensively and faster,
owing to its three-dimensional pore system. Branching reactions are favored
inside zeolites with one-dimensional pore structures. Bjorgen et al. (163) argued
that this effect is associated with longer residence times of monomers inside
the pores.
V. Oligomerization Reactions Catalyzed by Surface Basic Centers:
The MgO/CO Case Study
The reactivity of high-surface-area (typically 200–300 m2 g1) MgO is demonstrated
by the large number of species that are formed upon interaction with carbon mon-
oxide at 300 K; these are formed in a complex sequence of surface reactions
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
41
V]
involving the most basic surface O2 ions. Some of these reactions are activated and
require considerable time to be completed at room temperature, with formation of
oligomeric pink-colored species (12,17,26,167–174). It is generally accepted that all
these species originate from a common CO2
2 precursor generated from a primary
attack of carbon monoxide on the low-coordinated O3c
2 and O4c
2 oxygen ions
present at defect sites such as corners, edges, kinks, etc. (12,26). At low temper-
atures (TE100 K), the hypothetical reaction sequence is as follows:
O2 Ð
CO CO2
2 Ð
CO C2O2
3 Ð
CO C3O2
4 Ð
CO         CnO2
nþ1,
ð2Þ
leading to the formation of a complex, time-dependent population of charged
monomers, dimers, trimers, and oligomers. Only at room temperature dispropor-
tionation products (carbonates, squarate, or rhodizonate anions) are slowly
formed, as follows:
Cnþ1O2
nþ2 þ O2 ! CnO2
n
þ CO2
3 .
ð3Þ
The full set of reactions can be represented schematically according to the energy
proﬁle stated in Fig. 3. In this case, the active center ‘ is a low-coordinated
oxygen ion present at a defect site; the monomer M is the CO molecule, and the
barrier heights associated with termination reactions are comparable to kT. It is
thus clear that, in order to follow the oligomerization reaction under ‘‘clean’’
conditions (i.e., without disproportionation products), it is necessary to perform
low-temperature experiments. The structures of the species formed following the
reactions described by Eqs. (2) and (3) depend on the local surroundings of the
pristine O3c
2 or O4c
2 basic site. These structures deﬁne the stability of each species,
which, together with the activation barrier of the individual steps and PCO, deﬁne
the lifetime of each species in the consecutive steps of the oligomerization reaction.
This lifetime thus deﬁnes the relative proportion of carbonite CO2
2, oligomeric,
and ﬁnal disproportionation products and, consequently, their probability to be
observed by time-resolved IR spectroscopy, at a given temperature and for a given
contact time. It is therefore expected that the most reactive intermediates,
characterized by a poor surface stabilization, will have a transient character and
will hardly be observable by time-resolved spectroscopies.
The species formed in the reactions of Eqs. (2) and (3) transform the pristine,
strongly basic O3c
2 and O4c
2 centers into more complex structures in which the
negative charge is delocalized on a larger set of carbon and oxygen atoms. The
stabilities of these structures on the surface will consequently depend very much on
the Coulombic interactions with the surface ions and specifically on the distribution
of the positive centers interacting with the negative parts of the admolecules.
Therefore, it is expected that the structures of these species and the structures of the
adsorption centers should be closely complementary and connected via a surface-
molecule recognition relation. This means that the nuclearity and the symmetry of
the [O(CO)n]2 surface species reﬂects the populations of the coordinatively un-
saturated O2 species available at the MgO surface. Thus, it is evident that a
detailed knowledge of the structures of these [O(CO)n]2 species, formed at the
C. LAMBERTI et al.
42
[V
lowest temperatures (at which surface rearrangements and migrations are sup-
pressed), gives indirect information about the structures of the adsorption centers.
With the aim of elucidating the energetic and spectroscopic characteristics of
reactions of Eq. (2), Spoto et al. (26) recently coupled a simple theoretical study (at
the B3-LYP level) with an extensive experimental investigation based on time/
pressure-dependent IR spectra characterizing CO adsorption on high-surface-area
MgO at 60 K. The choice of the temperature was dictated by the need to minimize
surface rearrangements resulting from the interactions with CO and to suppress the
disproportionation reactions (Eq. (3)) without causing CO liquefaction. The fol-
lowing two subsections are a summary of the principal theoretical and experimental
results of this investigation (26).
A. CO OLIGOMERIZATION ON MgO: AB INITIO CALCULATION FOR SIMPLE CLUSTER
MODELS
Because of the extreme heterogeneity of O2 basic sites present on the surfaces of
high-surface-area MgO crystals, Spoto et al. (26) used the simplest cluster model
able to account for the strongly basic character of the O2 sites responsible for the
CO oligomerization reactions on MgO. The cluster model consists of a bare,
unconstrained neutral Na+O2Na+ cluster. Of course, the limitations of this trivial
cluster are evident relative to the more realistic structures adopted by Lu et al. (175),
which incorporated three neutral (MgO)n (n ¼ 4, 6, and 8) three-dimensional clus-
ters containing O3c
2, O4c
2, Mg3c
2+, and Mg4c
2+ centers as reactive sites for the
carbonate formation. However, the advantages of the simple model used by Spoto
et al. (26) are evident, because the vibrational and thermodynamic properties of
large CnOn+1
2 species can be more easily calculated. Besides the limited CPU time
available, this statement holds true also for the limited number of possible symme-
tries characterizing the surface carbonates of the same stoichiometry.
The reaction of the Na+O2Na+ cluster with 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 CO molecules was
investigated by Spoto et al. (26) to evaluate the number of IR-active modes, their
frequencies, and relative intensities of CO polyadducts and to asses their relative
stabilities. Spoto et al. (26) performed calculations with DFT methods using the
B3-LYP functional and a standard 6-311+G(d,p) basis set, as coded in the Gaussian
98 (Rev A.7) program (176). The geometry was optimized without constraints,
assuming Cs symmetry. Owing to the simplicity of the adopted model, Spoto et al.
(26) were aware that the results could not be trusted quantitatively (exact stretching
frequencies and exact binding energy, BE), but should be considered only qualita-
tively (the number of observed IR bands, relative intensities, and relative stability of
adducts of increasing nuclearity—i.e., the values appropriate for the experimental/
theoretical comparison reported in Table IV). Following this approach, the computed
BE values characterizing the adducts were corrected neither for basis set superpo-
sition errors (BSSE) nor for thermal energies. The validity of the whole theoretical
approach has been veriﬁed a posteriori, on the basis of its ability to explain the
complex time/pressure-dependent set of IR spectra (Section V.B and Table IV).
Figure 18 presents the calculated infrared spectra for a series of CnOn+1
2 species
(left part) with n ranging from 1 to 5 and the corresponding optimized structures
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
43
V]
TABLE IV
IR Frequencies of the Five Modes (n1, n2, n3, n3a, and n4) of the Trimeric (C3O4)2 Species Formed at 60 K
on Three Different Basic Surface Sites (Species Labeled as C, C0, and C00) of High-Surface-Area MgO,
Compared With Those Obtained from Ab Initio Calculations (Section V.A and Figs. 19a and Fig. 18), from
Reference (26)
IR
mode
Frequency
site C
(cm1)
Frequency
site C0
(cm1)
Frequency
site C00
(cm1)
Experimental
intensity
(Iexp, a.u.)
Frequency
predicted by ab
initio model (cm1)
Theoretical
intensity
(Itheo, a.u.)
n1
2108
2093
2084
S
2122
S
n2
1566
1543
n.o.
M
1492
M
n3
1355
1376
1398
S
1368
S
n3a
1324
1318
n.o.
M
1306
M
n4
1157
1166
n.o.
W
1161
W
The relative surface abundance of C, C0, and C00 species is as follows: 60%, 40%, and less than 5%,
respectively. The relative intensities of the ﬁve modes in both experimental (Iexp) and theoretical (Iexp)
spectra are reported. For the less-populated C00 site, only the most intense IR modes have been observed.
Notation: n.o. ¼ not observed, S ¼ strong, M ¼ medium, and W ¼ weak).
1800
1200
0
100
200
300
400
n=1
n=5
n=4
n=3
n=2
CO gas
Calc. IR Intensity (a.u.)
Wavenumbers (cm-1)
e) 
d)
c)
b)
C1
C3
O2
O6
C5
C1 
C3 
O2
O4 
a)
O4
FIG. 18. Calculated vibrational spectra (left, drawn arbitrarily assuming a gaussian shape with
10 cm1 width for each mode) and optimized structures (right) of Na+O2Na+(CO)n models, with
n ¼ 1–5. (Reproduced with permission from Spoto et al. (26).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
44
[V
(right part). For comparison, the spectrum of the free CO molecule, computed with
the adopted computational method, is also shown. The resulting ~
nðCOÞ frequency
of 2213 cm1 is to be compared with the experimental value of 2143 cm1.
Spoto et al. (26) found that the carbonite CO2
2 ion, stabilized by 218 kJ mol1
with respect to the isolated Na+O2Na+ and CO molecules, has a bent structure
chelating the Na+ ion (Fig. 18a). The dimer, showing a non-planar geometry
(Fig. 18b), exhibits an overall binding energy of only 226 kJ mol1, which implies
that the binding of the second CO molecule to the carbonite is almost negligible.
In contrast, the trimer Na+O2Na+(CO)3 (Fig. 18c) is a very stable species
(BE ¼ 385 kJ mol1). But when more than three CO molecules are bonded to the
cluster, the adducts may assume different structures, which are likely to be stabi-
lized to a different extent by different surface environments. For example, the
tetramer can be an open chain, a four-membered ring, or a ﬁve-membered ring, the
last of these reported in Fig. 18d. The authors found that, among the investigated
tetramers, this last one is the most stable (BE ¼ 245 kJ mol1); however, it is less
stable than the trimer (26). Considering that such clusters prefer a planar geometry,
the authors performed the extension to larger rings by insertion of the carbon atom
of CO into the ring in a straightforward manner. The pentamer (Fig. 18e) is again a
stable adduct (BE ¼ 400 kJ mol1), whereas the hexamer is not.
In summary, the results of this work (26) show that the addition of a CO mol-
ecule to a Na+O2Na+?(CO)n cluster is favored when n is an even number and
isoenergetic (or even disfavored) when n is odd.
B. CO OLIGOMERIZATION ON MgO: TIME- AND PRESSURE-DEPENDENT IR
SPECTROSCOPY AT 60 K
B.1. Microcrystal Surface Area: A Means for Tuning Surface Reactivity
The same set of MgO samples used by Gribov et al. (124) to investigate the
reactivity of surface defects for H2 splitting (Section III.C and Fig. 11) was used by
the same group for an investigation of the reactivity of highly basic O2 surface
species for CO oligomerization (26). The IR spectra of CO adsorbed at 60 K on
high-surface-area MgO (230 m2 g1), sintered MgO (40 m2 g1), and MgO smoke
(10 m2 g1) were measured by Spoto et al. (26) and are shown as a function of CO
coverage y, in parts (a), (b), and (c) of Fig. 19, respectively. These spectra represent
the ﬁrst IR investigation of the interaction of CO with polycrystalline MgO pow-
ders at temperature below liquid-nitrogen temperature. They differ substantially
from those obtained at higher temperature (about 100 K) (12,169). This difference is
attributed to the fact that at 60 K higher CO coverages can be obtained at similar
PCO than in experiments performed at about 100 K. The most intense spectra of the
three sequences correspond to PCO ¼ 5.3 kPa. The other spectra were obtained by
decreasing the pressure in steps at T ¼ 60 K. The spectra with lowest intensity were
obtained after prolonged pumping at 60 K and correspond to CO equilibrium
partial pressures less than 104 kPa. As the original spectra were restored by
redosing CO at 60 K, Spoto et al. (26) concluded that the species responsible for
the pressure-dependent IR bands illustrated in Fig. 19 are formed reversibly and
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
45
V]
P
P
P
D
C
C'
A
2100 2075
1600
1500
1400
1300
1200
Wavenumber / cm-1
Wavenumber / cm-1
2100 2075
1600
1500
1400
1300
1200
0.0
0.5
Absorbance
0.25
0.50
0.75
0.00
0.75
1.50
Absorbance
(a)
(c)
(b)
FIG. 19. Coverage dependence of the IR spectra of CO dosed at 60 K onto high-surface-area MgO
(230 m2 g1), sintered MgO (40 m2 g1), and MgO smoke (10 m2 g1): parts (a), (b), and (c), respectively.
The reported spectroscopic regions (21202070 and 17001125 cm1) refer to the chemistry of CO
interacting with low-coordinated O2 basic centers. All spectra are vertically shifted for the sake of
clarity. The decrease of the band intensity by moving from high (a) to low (c) surface area samples is
remarkable: note the nearly total absence of the O2 chemistry on the MgO smoke (c). (Adapted with
permission from Spoto et al. (26).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
46
[V
involve surface processes characterized by very low or negligible activation barriers
with respect to kT.
The three sequences shown in Fig. 19 demonstrate that the decrease of the speciﬁc
surface area is accompanied by a dramatic decrease in intensity of the spectra and
by a drastic spectral simpliﬁcation. In particular, all bands in the 2120–1100 cm1
interval, attributed to species formed at very reactive three-fold and four-fold co-
ordinated oxygen sites located on edges and steps (O4c
2) and on corners (O3c
2) are
strongly affected by sintering and are nearly totally absent on MgO smoke (Fig.
19c). A similar effect was discussed in Section III.C for the H2 adsorption and
splitting on the same MgO samples (Fig. 11) and on the chemistry of CO adsorbed
on Mg2+ sites (spectral region not reported in Fig. 19) (12,26,177).
B.2. CO Oligomerization on High-Surface-Area MgO
Spoto et al. (26) assigned the complex series of spectra obtained by dosing CO on
high-surface-area MgO (Fig. 19a); the low-coverage spectra are discussed ﬁrst.
B.2.1. Monomeric CO2
2 and Dimeric (C2O3)2 Species Formed on Less Reactive
O2 Sites.
The peaks at 1316 cm1 (very sharp and intense) and at 1279 cm1
(broader and weaker) are two of the most important IR features observed at the
lowest CO coverages (see doublet A, Fig. 19a). This doublet had already been
observed in experiments performed at higher temperatures (12,17,169). The nearly
immediate formation of these species (hereafter called species A) at a temperature as
low as 60 K indicates that the reaction involved, namely, the ﬁrst equilibrium re-
action stated in Eq. (2), is fast and not activated (i.e., DECO shown schematically in
Fig. 3 is much less than kT). This experimental evidence agrees well with the high
stability of the adducts (calculated BE ¼ 218 kJ mol1, Section V.A). The doublet
has been ascribed to the antisymmetric and symmetric stretching modes of the
CO2
2 structure (26). This assignment had been proposed previously (12,17,169) and
is in agreement with the ab initio calculations of Spoto et al. (26), which predict a
correct baricenter of the IR modes (Fig. 18).
The 1316–1279 cm1 doublet of monomeric CO2
2 species A became saturated
after the time required to collect the ﬁrst three spectra shown in Fig. 19a, and then it
progressively disappeared, accompanied by the growth of a new triplet at 1635 (M),
1476 (S), and 1344 (W) cm1. According to the ab initio investigation mentioned in
Section V.A, Spoto et al. (26) ascribed this triplet to (C2O3)2 (denoted species D),
which is formed from species A by addition of further CO at 60 K (dashed triplet,
Fig. 19a). The calculated spectrum of the (C2O3)2 dimer (Fig. 16) results in a
triplet of modes in the frequency region investigated. The high-frequency band is
located at 1544 cm1 (experiment: 1635 cm1, M) and is attributed to the out of
phase coupling between n(C1-O2) and n(C3-O4). The band at 1484 cm1 (experi-
ment: 1476 cm1, S) is attributed to the in-phase coupling of the same modes. The
lower-frequency mode appears at 1190 cm1 (experiment: 1344 cm1, W) and is
ascribed to the coupling of n(Os-C1) with n(C1-C2) and d(Os-C1-C2).
In the PCO range covered by Spoto’s experiments (26), no further CO addition
involving these surface sites has been observed, indicating that the value of DE2CO-3CO
(Fig. 3) is much greater than kT at 60 K for the sites giving rise to the A and D species
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
47
V]
(Fig. 19a). In contrast, the DECO-2CO activation barrier is in the range of kT, as it has
been overcome by an increase in PCO.
B.2.2. Trimeric (C3O4)2 Species Formed on More Reactive O2 Sites and Their
Evolution into Oligomeric Species.
Together with the A doublet, the spectra
obtained at low PCO (Fig. 19a) are dominated by two sets of ﬁve bands (labeled as C
and C0, full and dotted arrows, respectively). According to results emerging from the
ab initio investigation (vide supra Section V.A), Spoto et al. (26) ascribed the doublet
of ﬁve bands to the ﬁve (n1, n2, n3, n3a, and n4) modes of trimeric (C3O4)2 species
hosted on two slightly different surface sites (the assignment is given in Table IV).
This interpretation represents a progress relative to the previous interpretations
(17,169,175,178), as the band ~
n3a was not assigned in the older works. Calculations
allowed the authors to assign the ﬁve bands to the following modes of the (C3O4)2
species: ~
n1 (calculated: 2122cm1, experiment: 2108, and 2093cm1, S) C5-O6
stretching; ~
n2 (calculated: 1492cm1, experiment: 1566, 1545cm1, M) Os-C1-O2
antisymmetric stretching; ~
n3 (calculated: 1368cm1, experiment: 1376, 1355cm1, S)
C1-C3 stretching; ~
n3a (calculated: 1306cm1, experiment: 1324, and 1318cm1, M)
O4-C3-C5 antisymmetric stretching; ~
n4 (calculated: 1161cm1, experiment: 1166,
1157cm1, W) collective mode (26). According to the relative intensities of the ﬁve
components of the two sets of ﬁve bands, the relative abundance of C and C0 species
has been estimated to be E60% and E40%, respectively. Spoto et al. (26) also
noticed that a third component appears in the two modes characterized by the
stronger IR bands (n1 and n3). These additional IR features were assigned to a third
family (C00) of (C3O4)2 species with a very low surface abundance (less than 5%);
correspondingly, only the more IR active modes could be detected (Table IV).
As the trimeric (C3O4)2 species C, C0, and C00 have been observed at 60 K, even
at the lowest value of PCO, the adsorption of up to three CO molecules on those
surface sites must be an almost non-activated process: DECOEDECO-2CO
EDE2CO-3COE0 (Fig. 3). Spoto et al. (26) reported that as PCO is increased fur-
ther, the bands of the trimeric species (C, C0, and C00) decreased simultaneously
without disappearing completely (Fig. 19a), and several new bands grew in. Among
them, the most intense bands were observed at 1668 cm1 (S), 1580 cm1 (VS), and
1266 cm1 (VS), labeled ‘‘P’’ in Fig. 19a. This process was inferred to be reversible,
because a successive decrement of the PCO restored the initial situation. This
reversibility implies that both the enthalpy and the activation energy for the
formation of polymeric species on these surface sites are modest in value. The
calculated instability of the tetramer (it is less stable than the trimer by
140 kJ mol1, vide supra Section V.A) suggests that the new bands observed should
be attributed to pentamers or to oligomers of higher nuclearity.
We emphasize that the agreement between the calculated and experimental
frequencies is poor. The lack of close agreement can be attributed to the limitations
of the model (as emphasized above) or, more probably, to the presence of non-
cyclic oligomers of the type proposed in Reference (169). Spoto et al. (26) concluded
that, as the polymeric CnOn+1
x species formed at 60 K are stable only in the presence
of high PCO, their stability is poor and the process of CO insertion and release at
60 K is associated with a remarkably low activation energy.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
48
[V
The authors emphasized that if the temperature is increased from 60 to 100 K at
constant PCO, the IR spectrum of adsorbed species changes dramatically and
becomes
similar
to
that
observed
and
discussed
in
previous
contributions
(12,167,169,170,172). The species formed at higher temperature (100K) are formed
irreversibly and cannot be removed by evacuation of the sample. This observation
means that the formation of polymeric species at 100 K is associated with higher
activation energies. Spoto et al. (26) proposed that the increment of the energy barrier
can be attributed to an activated surface rearrangement. In other words, the exper-
iment at 60K gave Spoto et al. (26) the opportunity to characterize monomeric,
oligomeric, and polymeric precursors of the polymeric species stable at higher
temperatures, the spectra of which have been described in References (12,169,172). As
these species are formed without a substantial activation barrier, they reﬂect the
surface topology directly. This result illustrates well the utility of the low-temperature
experiments and the extreme complexity of the processes occurring at the surface of
high-surface-area MgO when a large temperature interval is considered.
As a ﬁnal observation, we emphasize that the detailed description of these proc-
esses is of interest because it represents one of the best examples of how highly basic
oxygen species present at defect sites can attack the relatively unreactive CO mol-
ecule, with formation of chemically interesting species. In other words, these surface
sites are good examples for inspiring the design of new CO activation routes.
VI. Polymerization Reactions Catalyzed by Transition Metal Centers:
The Cr/SiO2 Case Study
A. THE Cr/SiO2 PHILLIPS CATALYST FOR ETHENE POLYMERIZATION: STRUCTURE OF
THE ACTIVE SITES
More than one third of all the polyethylene sold worldwide today is produced by
means of the Cr/SiO2 Phillips catalysts (3,179,180), patented in 1958 by Hogan and
Banks (181). The success of the Phillips polymerization process originates from its
ability to make more than 50 different types of polyethylene (PE), ranging from
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) to linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE)
(182). Furthermore, among all the alkene polymerization catalysts, the Cr/SiO2
catalyst is the only one that is able to polymerize ethene without the intervention of
any activator, which simpliﬁes the catalyst preparation and production process and,
in principle, the mechanistic investigations. Therefore, the Phillips catalyst is
regarded as an outstanding example to show the possibilities, as well as the chal-
lenges, in the application of FTIR spectroscopy in detecting the intermediate species
formed during the polymerization reaction and to solve the mystery of the initiation
mechanism (3,183).
A.1. Preparation of the Cr/SiO2 Phillips Catalyst
The Phillips catalyst is commonly prepared by impregnating amorphous silica
with chromic acid and then calcining in oxygen at 923 K. A typical catalyst contains
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
49
VI]
about 0.5–1.0% Cr by weight, corresponding to about 0.2–0.4 Cr atoms per nm2,
for a standard silica having a surface area of 400 m2 g1. The anchoring reaction has
been investigated over the years by means of several techniques (3,184), such as IR
spectroscopy (185–187), Raman (184,187–191) and resonant Raman (192) spec-
troscopy, DRS UV–Vis spectroscopy (190), mass spectrometry (182) (with CrO2Cl2
and silica which show the release of HCl), and differential thermal analysis (193). It
has been demonstrated that the anchoring process is an esteriﬁcation reaction, in
which the hydroxyl groups on the silica surface are consumed, and chromium ions
in the hexavalent state are attached to the surface by oxygen linkages. Although the
oxidation state of the anchored chromium species is well deﬁned (and equal to VI),
the molecular structure of these species is still a matter of discussion, and several
spectroscopic techniques (UV–Vis, IR, Raman, XAS, XPS, etc.) have been
employed in attempts to resolve the issues (3,184). The complementary use of
UV–Vis DRS and resonant Raman spectroscopies definitely demonstrated recently
that Cr(VI) is anchored as monochromate species on the surface of the Cr/SiO2
catalyst, at least at low chromium loadings (192). However, the nature of the silica
support (e.g., the speciﬁc surface area, porosity, and concentration of surface
hydroxyl groups), the chromium loading, the presence of possible dopants, and the
activation method (e.g., maximum temperature, heating rate, total calcination time,
and calcination atmosphere), all play a role in the determination of the distribution
of chemical states of the supported chromium (3).
The anchored Cr(VI) species are not themselves the sites for the propagation
reaction in PE formation. In the industrial procedure, the formation of the active
centers takes place by direct contacting of the Cr(VI) species with ethene at
373–423 K. The polymerization starts after an induction period, which is attributed
to a reduction phase, during which Cr(VI) is reduced to Cr(II), and ethene is
oxidized (3,182). Formaldehyde has been found to be the main byproduct, but
water and other oxidation products have also been observed in the gas phase (194).
These reactive products can themselves react with surface silanols and siloxane
bridges, and also with the reduced chromium sites. Consequently, the state of
the silica surface and the chromium species after this reduction step is not well
known (3).
Fortunately, it has been established that the reduction of the oxidized precursors
can also be performed with a simpler reductant such as CO, with formation of a single
oxidation product (CO2) that is not adsorbed on the sample (3,182,185,195–197).
This simpler reduction procedure allows one to obtain a simpliﬁed version of
the catalyst, whereby the oxidation state of chromium and the surface hydroxylation
are much better controlled. According to the literature data, no significant differ-
ence in the polymerization products has been found between the CO-reduced
system and the ethene-reduced one (3,182,198). Therefore, this CO-reduced
catalyst, containing predominantly anchored Cr(II), has been considered as a
‘‘model catalyst.’’
In the following part of this review, we focus on this CO-reduced catalyst, which
represents an ideal opportunity for the application of sophisticated characterization
methods, such as FTIR spectroscopy, which might be expected to solve the mystery
of the initiation mechanism.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
50
[VI
A.2. The Structure of the Reduced Cr(II) Species
Unfortunately, although the CO-reduced catalyst is highly homogeneous from
the point of view of the valence state, it is still quite heterogeneous structurally
(3,182). The results accumulated in the preceding two decades show that the Cr(II)
ions are generally grafted to the amorphous silica surface through two strong SiO
ligands, but they can differ by the strain properties of the environment, by the type
and the number of ligands, and by the average CrCr distance. According to these
observations, several types of heterogeneities can be found (3,199):
(i) Structural heterogeneity: The Cr(II) ions can be grafted to SiO ligands belong-
ing to silicon-membered rings of various dimensions. Upon increasing the ring
dimensions we pass from a pseudo-tetrahedral structure to a pseudo-octahedral
one (3,200), characterized by a less strain and a higher ionicity of the resulting
O–Cr bond, through intermediate structures (see Schemes 6 and 7 in Reference
(3)). UV–Vis spectra (201) demonstrated that the tetrahedral-like sites, being
more protruding on the surface, are preferentially affected by thermal treat-
ments and undergo structural rearrangements, leading to more coordinated
Cr(II) species. Conversely, the octahedral-like sites are more stable.
(ii) Ligand heterogeneity: The Cr(II) ions may differ in the type, number, and
position of additional weaker ligands, such as siloxane bridges or (more rarely)
residual OH groups. IR spectroscopy of probe molecules has been found to be
the most sensitive and useful technique to discriminate between different Cr(II)
sites on the silica surface (3,7,202–211). Recently, similar results have also been
obtained by means of Raman spectroscopy in resonant or pre-resonant
conditions (192,212). These results show that the structure of the Cr(II) sites
can be formulated schematically as (SiO)2Cr(II)Ln, where L is a weak ligand
(SiOSi siloxane bridge or OH group) and n can vary from 0 (completely
unsaturated Cr site) to 4 (completely saturated Cr site) (3,7,204,205,209,210). It
has also been established that the weak ligands L can be more or less easily
displaced from their positions when stronger ligands (e.g., NO, CO, or ethene
itself) interact with the chromium center (3,7,210).
(iii) Topological heterogeneity: On the basis of calculations based simply on the
chromium content of the catalyst and the silica surface area, we expect that
surface Cr(II) species are located on the silica support as isolated species with
an average separation distance of approximately 10 A
˚ . However, we cannot
exclude the possibility that a fraction of the Cr(II) species could be located
closer to each other. This means that, even if the two chromium sites do not
formally constitute a dichromate-like structure (i.e., do not share a common
oxygen ligand), their proximity may play a role in determining the polymer-
ization mechanism.
From this brief discussion it is clear that, even if the CO-reduced catalyst is
simpler than the industrial catalyst, the high degree of heterogeneity of the Cr(II)
species present on the surface of the amorphous silica makes the comprehension of
the polymerization mechanism on the Phillips catalyst a complex and difﬁcult task
that still requires work (3). The heterogeneity of the Cr(II) structure is reﬂected in a
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
51
VI]
distribution of catalytic activities, which, in turn, is the basis for the broad
molecular weight distribution characterizing the Phillips PE (213).
B. THE ETHENE POLYMERIZATION MECHANISM
B.1. Comparison with Other Alkene Polymerization Catalysts: The Mystery of the
Polymerization Mechanism in the Phillips Catalyst
As was anticipated in the preceding section, the ability of the Phillips catalyst to
polymerize ethene without the intervention of any activator makes it unique among
the alkene polymerization catalysts, and raises the question of the polymerization
mechanism. In the case of all the other alkene polymerization catalysts (e.g.,
Ziegler–Natta and metallocene-type catalysts), it is generally accepted that the
metal active site must posses one alkyl or hydride ligand and an available coor-
dination site (179,214,215), so that the standard polymerization mechanism is a
particular case of the more general reaction path shown schematically in Fig. 3, as
represented in Scheme 9. In this case, the active site is represented not only as a bare
‘ site, but as an isolated metal site with an alkyl group (R) and an available
coordination vacancy (&). According to this Cossee-type mechanism (215,216),
the ﬁrst step of the reaction is the insertion of a monomer molecule into the vacant
position of the metal site, via a d–p interaction, followed by a migratory insertion
reaction that elongates the growing alkyl chain by one monomer unit, thereby
regenerating the vacant coordination site at the metal center.
In the case of the CO-reduced Cr/SiO2 system, however, the active site is a Cr(II)
ion which contains neither an alkyl nor a hydride ligand in its coordination sphere.
This means that, if a Cossee-type polymerization mechanism is assumed for the CO-
reduced Phillips catalyst, ethene must play two important roles simultaneously and/
or successively: (a) as an alkylation agent, alkylating the potential active Cr(II)
species and resulting in the formation of active sites, and (b) as a propagation agent,
acting as a monomer for chain propagation on the active sites. According to these
statements, the general polymerization mechanism on the Phillips catalyst should be
that reported in Scheme 10, where Y1, Y2, Y3, etc. are unknown precursor species.
M
R
C2H4
M
R
M
CH2
C
H2
R
SCHEME 9.
Cr
Cr
Cr
Cr
Cr
II
+
Y1
Y2
+
Y2
Y3
SCHEME 10.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
52
[VI
By the assumption that Y1 is a (C2H4)n complex containing n coordinated molecules
(with n ¼ 1, 2, or 3, (211,217)), the scheme accounts for the ability of ethene alone
to create an alkyl-type activating species Y2. After the creation of Y2 groups, the
mechanism proceeds via insertion of ethene, with formation of the intermediate
represented in square brackets. This model explains well the experimentally
observed ﬁrst-order behavior of the polymerization reaction with respect to the
monomer partial pressure (218–224).
The aim of this Section is to discuss the experimental methods, problems, and
recent improvements in the determination of the exact nature of the precursor
species Y1, Y2, Y3, etc. (i.e., the determination of the initiation mechanism for the
ethene polymerization). Facing this topic, we must be aware that, besides the
problems related to the determination of the Cr(II) structure (vide supra Section
VI.A.2), the identiﬁcation of the species formed during the initial stages of the
reaction has been prevented so far for two other reasons: (a) only a fraction of the
Cr(II) sites are active in the polymerization under the usually adopted conditions
(225), so that almost all the characterization techniques give information about the
inactive majority Cr sites and (b) the active sites are characterized by a very high
polymerization rate (high turnover frequency, TOF). It is thus clear that any
experimental efforts devoted to the detection of the precursor and/or intermediate
species must solve these two problems (vide infra Section VI.C).
B.2. The Mechanisms Proposed in the Literature and the ‘‘Zoo’’ of Precursor Species
The crucial point of the initiation mechanism on the CO-reduced Cr/SiO2 system
has stimulated a great debate over the past decades, and several hypotheses have
been advanced. All hypothetically possible Y1 and Y2 species so far hypothesized in
the literature are represented in Scheme 11.
All these mechanisms start from the common hypotheses that the coordinatively
unsaturated Cr(II) site initially adsorbs one, two, or three ethene molecules (left
column, Scheme 11) (211,217), via a coordinative d–p bond (which can be all Y1
species in the model of Scheme 10). Support for the postulate that the Cr site can
coordinate up to three ethene molecules was inferred by Zecchina et al. (217), who
showed that Cr(II) is able to adsorb and trimerize acetylene to give benzene. If Y1 is
the diethene complex, Y2 species can be the metallacyclopropane, the ethylidene,
or the ethenylhydride species (ﬁrst row, Scheme 11). If Y1 is the triethene complex,
the Y2 species can be the metallacyclopentane, the metallacyclobutane, and so on
(second row, Scheme 11).
The detailed description of all the proposed mechanisms is not the aim of this
work (see Reference (3) for more details), but a few concepts are brieﬂy discussed
in the following: (a) Scheme 11 may be read in two dimensions: in the vertical
direction, the evolution of the initial species upon addition of one ethene molecule is
represented, whereas, in the horizontal direction, all the possible isomeric structures
characterized by an average C2H4/Cr ratio equal to 2, 3, and 4 are reported. (b) In
all the proposed reactions, the metal formally becomes Cr(IV) as it is converted into
the active site. This hypothesis is supported by investigations of the interaction of
molecular transition metal complexes with ethene (226,227). Furthermore, it has
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
53
VI]
been noted that the average oxidation state of chromium after polymerization is
always greater than +2 (190,228,229). Furthermore (c), all the proposed mecha-
nisms involve only an isolated Cr(II) ion, but the presence of Cr–Cr pairs with
sufﬁciently short CrCr distances (so that their proximity may play a role in de-
termining the polymerization mechanism) cannot be excluded.
Several initiation mechanisms can be found in this framework, not only coming
from top to bottom vertically, but also following a zigzag path (thus resulting in
more than the seven paths illustrated in Scheme 11). Furthermore, most of the Y2
species reported here could be in equilibrium during the early stages of the
polymerization reaction, increasing the complexity of the scenario. All the possible
reaction paths which lead from the coordinated ethene to the growing polymer
chain (Scheme 11) imply that the energetic proﬁle reported in Fig. 3 can no longer
describe the complexity of the situation. In fact, the reaction path is no longer
metallacyclopentane
metallacycloheptane
metallacyclobutane
ethylidene
metallacyclopropane
(I) cyclic polymers
(II) propagation by insertion
        into metallacycles
(III) alkylidene-
metallacyclobutene
mechanism
(IV) carbene mechanism
(V) Cossee-type
      mechanism
(VI) Cossee-type
       mechanism
ethenylhydride
SCHEME 11.
C. LAMBERTI et al.
54
[VI
unequivocally determined, as the system can potentially develop into many different
directions.
We have tried to represent this concept pictorially in Fig. 20, where we trans-
formed the complex pattern of reaction paths illustrated in Scheme 11 into a
network of potential wells and barriers, by substituting each intermediate species
with a potential well of different depth, separated from adjacent intermediate
species by speciﬁc activation barriers of different heights. In other words, Fig. 20 is
the evolution of the analogous Fig. 3 obtained by increasing the number of degrees
of freedom of the reaction from 1 to 2, and where the termination processes have
not been taken into consideration.
Following the general statements given in the introduction (Section I.C), the
spectroscopic identiﬁcation of a precursor species in the ﬁrst steps of the reaction
depends on its lifetime. This means that the precursor species having lifetimes
greater than the time needed to perform the experiment may be detectable. Only
those precursors that are sufﬁciently stable (i.e., which lie in a sufﬁciently deep well
of the potential energy proﬁle and are separated from the adjacent states by
activation energy barriers higher than kT) can be detected by spectroscopic
methods. Unfortunately, such intermediate species—being the more stable and
less reactive—are also the less relevant in the transition from oligomerization to
FIG. 20. Qualitative representation of the energetics of the initiation mechanisms reported in Scheme
11. The intermediate species are represented by potential wells of different depth, mutually separated by
speciﬁc activation energy barriers of different heights. Energy values for both wells and barriers are
arbitrary in depth and height, and are coded in a color scale from dark blue to red when going from
negative to positive values. From back to front, the insertion of two, three, and four ethene molecules is
represented. From left to right the p-complexes and the possible isomeric structures characterized by an
average C2H4/Cr ratio equal to 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, are represented by potential wells. The
polymerization reaction takes place upon addition of further ethene molecules as suggested by the green
arrow (unpublished).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
55
VI]
polymerization. One thus faces an intrinsic and unavoidable dilemma, because the
spectators will always be more easily detected than the relevant intermediate states.
In Section VI.C.1, we show that the energy barriers associated with the ethene
insertion on the active Cr(II) centers are considerably lower than kT and that
standard FTIR experiments lead only to the observation of the polymeric products,
unless steric constraints prevent the chain growth. In Section VI.C.2, we show that
progress in detecting the precursor species can be achieved as follows: (a) by
improving the time response of the instrument; (b) by slowing down the reaction
by manipulating reaction temperature and pressure in a concerted way; and (c) by
increasing the sensitivity of the technique.
C. THE ETHENE INITIATION MECHANISM AS INVESTIGATED BY FTIR SPECTROSCOPY
C.1. Ethene Polymerization at Room Temperature: Observation of the Growing
Polymeric Products
Let us assume, for simplicity, that the reaction path associated with the initiation
mechanism, whatever it is among those stated in Scheme 11, can be described by
only one well-deﬁned path along the wells represented in Fig. 20. According to this
assumption, the one-dimensional scheme shown in Fig. 3 holds again. Of course in
this situation the activation barriers are DEI5kT and DEI5DEt. Under these
conditions, the lifetime of the precursor species is so short (the Cr(II) centers can
insert from 30 up to 70 ethene molecules during the time needed to record a
conventional IR spectrum with a high signal/noise ratio, that is, 60 s (3,230–232))
that only the reaction products can be seen by traditional spectroscopic techniques.
This point is demonstrated by the early work of Ghiotti et al. (205), who carried out
ethene polymerization on CO-reduced Cr/SiO2 at room temperature (and at low
pressure). The FTIR spectra (Fig. 21) are characterized by two bands, at 2920 and
2851 cm1, growing with time in parallel at nearly constant rates, which are easily
assigned to the antisymmetric and symmetric stretching vibrations of CH2 groups
of polymer chains growing on the silica surface. Furthermore, a broad band
centered at about 2750 cm1 became evident at increasing reaction times. This
band, which disappeared upon contact of the catalyst with CO, was accompanied
by the increase of the methylene stretching absorptions at 2920 and 2851 cm1, and
has been explained by the assumption of an agostic interaction between the CH2
groups of a living chain and the Cr ion (205,233).
Because the observation of intermediate species was not possible, hypotheses
about the initiation mechanism were made starting from what was not observed. In
this respect, we brieﬂy focus attention on the fact that, among the proposed mech-
anisms reported in Scheme 11, the only one not involving species characterized by
methyl groups is the metallacycle mechanism (path I). In this case, indeed, all the
initiation species are characterized only by methylene groups, belonging to rings of
increasing dimension. Because the stretching modes of methyl groups are almost
two times more intense than CH2 stretching modes, we expect that methyl groups,
if present, should be visible in the ﬁrst stages of polymerization, when the chain
length is modest (i.e., the CH2/CH3 ratio is relatively low). In the spectra reported in
C. LAMBERTI et al.
56
[VI
Fig. 21, no absorption characterizing CH3 terminal groups is evident, even in the
early stages of polymerization. Analogously, no spectroscopic evidence of carbene
species could be found. Therefore, the chains were suggested to have a cyclic
structure and to be very long even after short polymerization times (205,233),
so that the metallacycle mechanism (I in Scheme 11) was considered the most
probable.
The work of Ghiotti et al. (205) demonstrates the qualitative validity of the
energy proﬁle shown in Fig. 3; at room temperature, the activation energy asso-
ciated with the monomer insertion (DEI) is less than kT, and the reaction proceeds
very fast toward the polymeric products. Because heat is released each time a
monomer is inserted into the chain, we expect that, in the absence of efﬁcient
dispersion of excess heat, the active Cr sites should have a local temperature higher
than that of the environment, at least as long as ethene is continuously inserted. On
the basis of this naive picture, we can imagine that during the initial stages of
polymerization the catalyst is characterized by isolated hot spots, which are the Cr
active sites, dispersed on the colder silica surface.
Following this idea, we have recently tried to monitor the ethene polymerization
reaction at room temperature on the Cr(II)/SiO2 catalyst by means of IR emission
spectroscopy (IRES). IRES monitors the radiative transition of a molecule from an
3100
3000
2900
2800
2700
2600
Absorbance
0.2 a.u.
Wavenumber / cm-1
FIG. 21. Time-resolved FTIR spectra of the ethene polymerization reaction on a 1.0 wt.% Cr/silica
sample oxidized at 923 K and CO-reduced at 623 K (ethene pressure ¼ 1010 Pa). The CH2 stretching
region is reported. (Unpublished spectra obtained by reproducing the experimental procedure described
in Reference (205).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
57
VI]
excited vibrational state back to the ground state. In the common IRES geometry,
the source of the IR radiation is the sample itself heated to a temperature above
room temperature, and the reference is a black body kept at the same temperature
as the sample. In our experiment the catalyst has been used as the radiation source,
and the IR spectra have been collected during the polymerization. However, in this
case the sample was heated not from an external source, but instead by the chemical
reaction occurring on it (i.e., the heat sources are the working ‘‘hot’’ Cr sites on the
silica surface). The result is reported in Fig. 22, where the emission spectra obtained
in the ﬁrst 10, 20, 30, and 40 s after the admission of ethene into the cell are shown
as black, blue, green, and orange points, respectively. It is evident that the black
body curves increase in intensity and undergo blue-shifts in frequency at the very
initial stages of the reaction. This result reﬂects both an increase in the number of
the sites involved in the polymerization (i.e., of the number of emitters—because the
diffusion of ethene into the catalyst pellet requires a non-zero time) and an increase
in the temperature of the sample. By ﬁtting these black body signals with a single
Planck function, using the temperature and an intensity scale factor as the only two
ﬁtting parameters, we estimated that the temperature increased from 365 to 380 K
when the contact time increased from 10 to 40 s. After the ﬁrst 40 s, the intensity of
the black body spectra slowly decreased (spectra not shown), whereas the position
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
Emission (a.u.)
Wavenumber / cm-1
FIG. 22. IRES spectra collected in situ during the ﬁrst stages of the ethene polymerization reaction on
a Cr(II)/SiO2 catalyst, by using the catalyst as the radiation source. The four set of data show the spectral
evolution as a function of the contact time: from bottom to top at 10, 20, 30, and 40 s, respectively.
Experimental data (dotted curves) are compared with the best ﬁt (full curves) (unpublished).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
58
[VI
of the maximum remained almost unaltered. This phenomenon reﬂects the fact that
the Cr sites are not really ‘‘hot’’ spots thermally isolated from the cold support, and
that the heat is gradually dispersed through the silica support.
On the basis of these results, we infer that the local temperature on the chromium
sites under operating conditions should be higher than 400 K. We also infer that this
experiment offers an instantaneous picture of the catalytic centers under the work-
ing conditions. We also note that this IR emission experiment is, to the best of our
knowledge, the ﬁrst example in which the sample itself becomes the radiation source
because of a chemical reaction.
A few years after the work of Ghiotti et al. (205), Spoto et al. (7,234) reported on
ethene polymerization on a Cr/silicalite. This system is characterized by localized
nests of hydroxyl groups (156,235,236), which can act as grafting centers for Cr
ions, thus showing a definite propensity for the formation of mononuclear chro-
mium species. In this sample two types of chromium are present, those located in
the internal channels of the zeolite and those located on the external surface.
According to the considerations described in Sections I.B and I.C, we expect that, if
the polymerization reaction on the external surface proceeded analogously to that
occurring on the surface of the amorphous silica, the geometrical constraints
present in the internal cavities of the silicalite would limit the formation of poly-
meric species and favor short oligomeric chains.
This expectation is demonstrated by the time-resolved FTIR spectra reported
in Fig. 23 (7,234). Besides the already discussed doublet at 2920–2850 cm1 (vide
supra), two additional broad bands, at 2931 and 2860 cm1, are clearly present, the
intensities of which are comparable to that of the standard components at the
beginning of the reaction. At increasing polymerization times they gradually
saturate, becoming high-energy shoulders of the standard bands.
The ﬁrst doublet was assigned to the CH2 stretching modes of the polymer chains
formed on the external surface of the zeolite (234). The lower FWHM of these
peaks compared to that of the bands observed on Cr/SiO2 (Fig. 21) reﬂects the
crystalline nature of the silicalite support and thus the more regular and homo-
geneous structure of chromium sites relative to those on silica. In other words, the
amorphous nature of the silica support favors the growth of polymers with a much
broader molecular weight distribution than that produced on the external surface of
silicalite. The bands at 2931 and 2860 cm1 were assigned to CH2 modes of
oligomeric/polymeric chains growing on Cr sites located in the silicalite framework
(7,234). As a consequence of the steric constraints caused by the framework walls,
polymeric chains initiated at internal Cr centers cannot grow freely, and only very
short chains can be obtained. Therefore, the CH2 stretching frequencies are shifted
with respect to those of the nearly inﬁnite chains formed on the external surfaces.
Because of the presence of steric constrains, the activation barriers DEI grow as
much as the increase of the polymer chain length, until the insertion of further
ethylene is forbidden. The absence of any methyl band even in the spectra of the
short, cavity-ﬁlling chains was taken by Spoto et al. (7,234) as an additional strong
indication that the mechanism of ethene polymerization via cyclic intermediates
(path I in Scheme 11) also operates on CO-reduced centers located in the silicalite
channels. It is important to note that the work of Spoto et al. (7,234) demonstrates
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
59
VI]
that the short oligomeric chains which can be present during the initiation stage of
the ethene polymerization—whatever the mechanism—could be characterized by
vibrational properties distinguishable from those of the nearly inﬁnite polymeric
chains (186).
C.2. Recent Improvements in the Detection of the Precursor/Intermediate Species
The ﬁrst attempt to detect the species present in the initiation step of the
polymerization reaction dates back to 1994, when Zecchina et al. (7) collected fast
time-resolved spectra of ethene polymerization conducted at room temperature on
the Cr(II)/SiO2 catalyst. The authors reported a sequence of spectra collected every
0.75 s, a time resolution that is in scale with the estimated TOF under the exper-
imental conditions (room temperature and a pressure of about 2 kPa), not far form
1 ethene molecule per second (3). The impossibility of detecting any evidence of
FIG. 23. Time-resolved FTIR spectra of ethene polymerization reaction on a 1.0 wt.% Cr/Silicalite
sample oxidized at 923 K and CO-reduced at 623 K (ethene pressure ¼ 2 kPa). The CH2 stretching region
is reported. The last spectrum has been obtained after 10 min. (Reproduced with permission from Spoto
et al. (234).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
60
[VI
alkyl precursor formation, even on this time scale, again strongly supports the
metallacycle mechanism (path I in Scheme 11).
In the same period, Vikulov et al. (237) tried to overcome the problem of the very
fast reaction by changing the reaction pressure. The rate of ethene polymerization
was reduced by injecting sequential small doses of ethene (5  1017 molecules, cor-
responding approximately to 50% of the total number of Cr atoms in the sample)
into the IR cell. Thus, the authors were able to observe p-adsorbed ethene on Cr(II)
centers at the beginning of the reaction (stretching and bending modes at 3000 and
1448 cm1, respectively; i.e., some of the Y1 species reported in Scheme 11), but no
evidence of precursor species Y2 was found.
More recently, Bordiga et al. (210) reported time-, pressure-, and temperature-
resolved FTIR experiments characterizing ethene polymerization on a Cr(II)/SiO2
catalyst. At the lowest temperature (in the range of 173200 K), the spectra showed
the adsorption of ethene on the silanol groups present on the silica surface and the
formation of p-bonded C2H4 complexes on the Cr(II) sites (bands at 3072 and
3005 cm1). This experimental evidence can be explained again with the energy
proﬁle depicted in Fig. 3: when T is sufﬁciently low to satisfy the condition
DEI>>kT, only the adsorbed alkene (Y1 species in Scheme 11) can be detected.
Successive stepwise temperature increases in the range of 200–300 K resulted in the
slow and progressive start of polymerization. However, even when the chain growth
rate was drastically decreased, FTIR spectra did not show any peculiarity that
could be associated with well-deﬁned initiation species (Y2 species in Scheme 11),
for example, containing CH3 groups.
Groppo et al. (3,183,211) recently applied the same approach to a Cr(II)/SiO2
aerogel system, characterized by a surface area higher than that of common aerosil
supports and by a high transparency in the IR region. The use of this support
permitted an increase of the sensitivity by a factor greater than 20 times that
attained in previous work. The time and temperature evolution of the ethene
polymerization on this system is shown in Fig. 24. At the lowest reaction times
(lowest temperature, about 100 K), only the well-deﬁned vibrational manifestations
of C2H4 p-bonded to Cr sites were present (front curve in Fig. 24). In particular, an
intense and almost symmetric band at 3004 cm1 dominates the entire frequency
region, accompanied by two narrow and well-resolved components, at 3084 and
3104 cm1 (3,211). Some of these bands had been reported by Bade et al. (238) and
by Bordiga et al. (210) and were assigned to the ~
nsðCH2Þ and ~
nasðCH2Þ of ethene
molecules p-bonded to Cr(II) species. These bands are accompanied by a weak
component at about 2975 cm1 (symbol, in Fig. 24), which is attributed to the
ethene molecules interacting with silanol groups (as indicated by the permanence of
a band at about 3650 cm1, assigned to the perturbation of the Si–OH groups,
spectral region not shown).
When the reaction temperature was increased, the polymerization reaction set in,
and the vibrational manifestation of the living polymer chains started to grow in
slowly, as evidenced by the growth of the CH2 stretching bands at 2925 and
2855 cm1 associated with the growing polymeric chains ($ in Fig. 24). At
increasing reaction times (when the temperature was sufﬁciently high to allow a fast
overcoming of the energy barrier associated with the monomer insertion), the
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
61
VI]
ethene partial pressure began to decrease substantially. Under such conditions, the
intensities of the bands related to p-bonded C2H4 gradually decreased and new
bands appeared at 2998, 3078, and 3096 cm1 (back curve in Fig. 24). The evolution
of the spectra as a function of the ethene partial pressure helps in the attribution of
the IR bands to each individual precursor species (3). The band at 3004 cm1 (and
its partners at 3084 and 3104 cm1) have been assigned to the ~
nsðCH2Þ of a diethene
p-bonded complex, which survives only until the monomer partial pressure is suf-
ﬁciently high. As the polymerization reaction proceeds, and the monomer partial
pressure decreases, the set of bands at 3004, 3084, and 3104 cm1 is transformed
into the new set of bands, at 2998, 3078, and 3096 cm1, which is assigned to a
monoethene complex (211).
In the ﬁrst stages of the polymerization reaction, two new bands, at 2931 and
2861 cm1, were clearly evident, accompanied by a very weak component at about
2965 cm1 (% in Fig. 24). We refer to these bands with the term anomalous, because
they are associated with species very different from the ﬁnal polymer chains and
which can be observed only during the initial reaction time (183). Note also that the
two bands associated with the growing polymeric chains ($ in Fig. 24) are at
frequencies approximately 6 cm1 higher than those characterizing the crystalline
polyethylene (vertical lines, Fig. 24). This shift is easily explained by considering
that the ﬁrst short polymeric chains are characterized by a higher conformational
3150
3100
3050
3000
2950
2900
2850
2800
Wavenumber / cm-1
infinite chains
300 K
100 K
FIG. 24. Temperature-resolved ethylene polymerization on Cr(II)/SiO2, in the 100–300 K range. Only
the C–H stretching region is shown. The front curve is dominated by the ethylene p-complexes at the
highest ethylene pressure and by the almost total absence of polymerization products, which progres-
sively appear in the successive spectra ($). For comparison, the frequency position of inﬁnite polymeric
chains is also shown (black lines). The weak component at 2975 cm1 (K) is due to the residual C2H4
molecules still in interaction with the silanol groups. The anomalous bands present in the ﬁrst stages of
the polymerization are evidenced by a % and their evolution by dotted lines. (Adapted with permission
from Groppo et al. (183).)
C. LAMBERTI et al.
62
[VI
disorder than the inﬁnite polymeric chains (213,239–245). In this sense the spectra
shown in Fig. 24 are anomalous with respect to all the components, conﬁrming that
we observed the spectroscopic manifestations of species formed during the very
early stages of the polymerization reaction.
On the basis of this observation and of the preliminary results reported by Bor-
diga et al. (210), Groppo et al. (183) repeated the experiment reported in Fig. 24 in
presence of a CO poison, with the hope of lowering the propagation rate and hence
increasing the concentration of the initial species. The result is shown in Fig. 25,
which is the analogue of the experiment reported in Fig. 24, but performed in the
presence of a CO poison (1 kPa of C2H4 in the presence of a CO equilibrium
pressure of 65 Pa). The complex series of bands shown in Fig. 25 is very similar to
FIG. 25. Temperature-resolved ethene polymerization on Cr(II)/SiO2 in presence of CO poison, in the
100–300 K range. In the inset it is reported the evolution of the anomalous bands upon outgassing, from
the gray spectrum (obtained in the same conditions of that reported in the main ﬁgure) to the black one
through the dotted ones. The gray arrows show the decrease of the anomalous bands. Symbols as in Fig.
24. A tentative coupling of the bands in terms of stretching modes belonging to the same species is
reported with dotted and full gray lines. (Adapted with permission from Groppo et al. (183).)
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
63
VI]
those observed in the absence of CO (Fig. 24). However, the anomalous bands at
2931, 2861, and 2965 cm1 are now much more intense and better resolved, and also
two bands at 2915 and 2893 cm1 are clearly evident in the very initial steps. By
allowing the reaction to proceed, simply by increasing the temperature, the anom-
alous bands were slowly overshadowed by the standard CH2 stretching bands of the
growing polymer chains ($ in Fig. 25). Conversely, when the reaction was sud-
denly stopped even at a low temperature by evacuation of the IR cell, the anom-
alous bands rapidly disappeared with the reduction of the ethene equilibrium
pressure, and only weak bands corresponding to the CH2 stretching modes of the
–(CH2-CH2)n– groups of long polymer chains remained (inset, Fig. 25, from gray
to black spectrum, through dotted spectra). This phenomenon was found to be
reproducible, and a new admission of ethene under the same experimental condi-
tions (i.e., at low T in presence of CO) again allowed the detection of the anomalous
bands (spectra not shown). Because the number of dosed ethene molecules was
small, the average n value of the resultant chains could not exceed 10–15. As
hydrocarbon chains of the type R–(CH2-CH2)n–R terminating with R ¼ CH3
should show a distinct absorption due to the na(CH3) (3), it was inferred deﬁnitively
that the irreversible species had cyclic structures.
The anomalous components observed in Fig. 25 are very similar to those
observed in the very initial steps when the polymerization was conducted at low
temperature on a Cr/SiO2-aerogel sample in absence of CO poison (Fig. 24). This
observation excludes the possibility that the origin of the anomalous bands is in
some way a consequence of the presence of CO. Indeed, as CO does not interfere
with the observation of the anomalous bands, it is safely inferred that CO acts
exclusively on the propagation mechanism, being a competitor of ethene in the
intermediate structure reported in brackets in Scheme 10. Conversely, CO does not
modify the nature of the Y2 species included in Scheme 10, characterized by the
presence of a hydrocarbon chain. It is, therefore, clear that we detected some of the
Y2 intermediate species, which are stable only in the presence of a sufﬁciently high
C2H4 partial pressure and are rapidly consumed by the propagation reaction.
The ability to interfere with the stability of these species allows us to make some
preliminary hypothesis about the initiation mechanism.
The Y2 species in Scheme 11 can be divided into two main groups: (i) those with a
metallacycle structure (second column) and (ii) those incorporating a CH3 group
(right part of Scheme 11). The metallacycle mechanism involves the coordination of
two or three C2H4 molecules to the Cr(II) site, followed by the formation of
chromacyclopropane or chromacyclopentane species, which then can grow in
dimension upon insertion of C2H4. Conversely, the methyl group is formed via
H-transfer from ethene into the Cr site, and for this reason it is hard to imagine that
the species belonging to the second group can be formed reversibly upon outgassing
at room temperature. These considerations lead to strong support for the inference
that the anomalous bands are associated with small metallacycles and that the
initiation mechanism follows a metallacycle route, as already been hypothesized
(3,7,205,210).
The data presented above offer the ﬁrst spectroscopic characterization of such
metallacycle intermediates, on the basis of two important considerations (183).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
64
[VI
(a) The anomalous bands are characterized by stretching frequencies higher than
that of CH2 groups belonging to long linear alkane chains (n(CH2) at 2920 and
2850 cm1 for crystalline PE (243)). The values of the n(CH2) stretching bands
are sensitive indicators for the extent of lateral interaction between n-alkyl
chains, and in particular a shift toward higher wavenumber indicates an
increase in the conformational disorder. However, only a shift of about
+6 cm1 with respect to the n(CH2) modes of long polyethylene chains has been
reported for short alkyl chains (213,239–245). This point explains the 2925 and
2855 cm1 values characterizing the growing polymeric chains ($ in Fig. 24).
However, these values are definitely lower than those characterizing the anom-
alous bands, especially for the bands at 2965, 2915, and 2893 cm1 (see gray
dotted lines in the inset of Fig. 25). These high-frequency values may be ex-
plained in terms of n(CH2) modes of little metallacycles characterized by a
strong geometrical strain. For comparison, consider that the na(CH2) and
ns(CH2) stretching frequencies of cyclopropane, cyclobutane, and cyclohexane
progressively
shift
from
3103–3025 cm1,
through
2987–2887 cm1,
to
2933–2863 cm1.
(b) The transient character of the anomalous bands upon outgassing of the sample
(see gray arrows in the inset of Fig. 25) suggests that they belong to intermediate
species which are stable only in presence of a sufﬁciently high C2H4 partial
pressures. This behavior can be explained by considering that, as the polym-
erization proceeds, the concentration of the strained metallacycle species
decreases. We thus observe a constant and gradual shift of the n(CH2) bands
toward lower frequencies, resulting in the disappearance of the anomalous
bands and in the growth of the standard CH2 stretching bands characterizing
polyethylene chains. Note that evidence of the reversibility of formation of the
metallacyclopentane species has been provided by Bre
´ et al. (246) in the case of
titanacyclopentanes and that the metallacycle mechanism has been demon-
strated to occur for several examples of ethene trimerization and tetrameriza-
tion catalysis (247–251) and for homogeneous catalysis with chromium
complexes (252). The evolution of the reaction toward the propagation and
the absence of competitive reactions leading to the formation of 1-alkenes (as
happens for the oligomerization catalysts) can be explained in terms of (a) the
low stability of the metallacycle intermediates and/or (b) a cooperative effect of
suitably spaced Cr–Cr couples (183).
C.3. Outlook
The discussion of the recent results concerning the ethene polymerization on the
Phillips catalyst demonstrates that temperature- and time-resolved FTIR spectros-
copy (where both temperature and time change simultaneously during the exper-
iment), together with an accurate control of the pressure conditions, has been
decisive in clarifying the nature of the adsorbed species and of some of the precursor
species present in the ﬁrst stages of the polymerization reaction. Further advances
in this direction may be achieved by increasing the sensitivity of the technique.
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
65
VI]
Preliminary results have been obtained recently in investigations of ethene polym-
erization on the Phillips system by means of diffuse reﬂectance IR Fourier trans-
form spectroscopy (DRIFT). DRIFT spectroscopy has been shown to be more
sensitive to surface species than transmission spectroscopy and to be excellent for
characterizing samples in reactive atmospheres (14,238). Figure 26 includes time-
resolved spectra characterizing the ﬁrst steps of ethene polymerization on a Cr(II)/
SiO2 sample, conducted at room temperature and in the presence of a CO poison.
The spectra show vibrational features very similar to and often better resolved than
those observed in the case of the ethene polymerization conducted at low temper-
ature and in the presence of CO (Fig. 25). These results suggest that, by fully
exploiting the potential of the DRIFT technique, deep insights into the precursor/
intermediate species present during the ﬁrst steps of the polymerization reaction are
possible.
Furthermore, it is possible to increase the sensitivity of the IR technique, and
thus the probability of detecting transient surface species characterized by (very)
low absorption coefﬁcients (such as the intermediate species present during the ﬁrst
steps of the polymerization reaction on the Phillips catalyst) by exploiting the
surface-enhanced infrared absorption (SEIRA) effect. It is known that molecules
adsorbed on metal island ﬁlms or particles exhibit 10–1000 times more intense
infrared absorption than would be expected from conventional measurements
without the metal (253–256). The possibility of performing SEIRA spectroscopy
should therefore be expected to provide an opportunity to better investigate the
nature of the intermediate species, not only for ethene polymerization on Cr(II)/
SiO2, but for other reactions on solid catalysts.
FIG. 26. Time-resolved DRIFT spectra of ethene polymerization at room temperature on Cr(II)/SiO2
in presence of a CO poison. Symbols as in Figs. 24 and 25 (unpublished).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
66
[VI
VII. Conclusions
In this review we have shown that time-resolved FTIR spectroscopy (with temper-
ature and pressure held constant during the experiment) and temperature-time
resolved FTIR spectroscopy (with both temperature and time changing simulta-
neously in a controlled way during the experiment) allow the detection of surface
transient species in surface-catalyzed reactions. Several examples are reported,
which can be classiﬁed in the following main categories:
(a) Adsorption processes and transformations in the adsorbed state: Decomposi-
tion of NO in Cu-exchanged zeolites (Section II.C); H2 adsorption and
activation on MgO at various temperatures (Section III); the MTO reaction in
protonic zeolites (Section IV.A).
(b) Proton-catalyzed oligomerization and polymerization of alkenes and unsatu-
rated molecules in protonic zeolites (Section IV.B).
(c) Oligomerization reactions catalyzed by the basic surface sites of MgO (Section
V).
(d) Oligomerization and polymerization of alkenes on catalysts incorporating
supported transition metal ions: ethene polymerization on the Cr/SiO2 Phillips
catalyst Sections VI.B and VI.C.
All these reactions are discussed in the framework of a few common potential
energy proﬁles, described in Section I, in which the evolution from the precursor
through the intermediate species to the ﬁnal products is governed by the relative
height of the corresponding activation energy barriers.
References
1. Weckhuysen, B.M., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5, 4351 (2003).
2. Weckhuysen, B.M., ‘‘In Situ Spectroscopy of Catalysts.’’ American Scientiﬁc Publishers, Stevenson
Ranch (California), 2004.
3. Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., Chem. Rev. 105, 115 (2005).
4. Otero Arean, C., Escalona Platero, E., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., J. Mol. Catal. 56, 211 (1989).
5. Escalona Platero, E., Otero Arean, C., Scarano, D., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., Mater. Chem.
Phys. 29, 347 (1991).
6. Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Scarano, D., Zecchina, A., and Borello, E., J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 90, 2827 (1994).
7. Zecchina, A., Spoto, G., Ghiotti, G., and Garrone, E., J. Mol. Catal. 86, 423 (1994).
8. Geobaldo, F., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday
Trans. 93, 1243 (1997).
9. Smith, G.D., and Palmer, R.A., in ‘‘Handbook of Vibrational Spectroscopy’’ (J.M. Chalmers and
P.R. Grifﬁths, Eds.), Vol 1, p. 625. Wiley, Chichester, 2002.
10. Saussey, J., and Thibault-Starzyk, F., in ‘‘In Situ Spectroscopy of Catalysts’’ (B.M. Weckhuysen,
Ed.). American Scientiﬁc Publisher, Stevenson Ranch (California), 2004.
11. Yeom, I., Y.-H, and Frei, H., in ‘‘In Situ Spectroscopy of Catalysts’’ (B.M. Weckhuysen, Ed.),
American Scientiﬁc Publisher, Stevenson Ranch (California), 2004.
12. Zecchina, A., Scarano, D., Bordiga, S., Spoto, G., and Lamberti, C., Adv. Catal. 46, 265 (2001).
13. Paukshtis, E.A., and Yurchenko, N.E., Russ. Chem. Rev. 52, 426 (1983).
14. Mitchell, M.B., Adv. Chem. Ser. 351, 351 (1993).
15. Matyshak, V.A., and Krylov, O.V., Catal. Today 25, 1 (1995).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
67
16. Wachs, I.E., Catal. Today 27, 437 (1996).
17. Zecchina, A., Scarano, D., Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Spoto, G., and Geobaldo, F., Catal. Today
27, 403 (1996).
18. Busca, G., Catal. Today 27, 457 (1996).
19. Busca, G., Catal. Today 27, 323 (1996).
20. Kno
¨ zinger, H., in ‘‘Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis’’ (G. Ertl, H. Kno
¨ zinger and
J. Weitkamp, Eds.), Vol 2, p. 707. Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 1997.
21. Zecchina, A., Lamberti, C., and Bordiga, S., Catal. Today 41, 169 (1998).
22. Dumas, P., Weldon, M.K., Chabal, Y.J., and Williams, G.P., Surf. Rev. Lett. 6, 225 (1999).
23. Hadjiivanov, K.I., Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 42, 71 (2000).
24. Hunger, M., and Weitkamp, J., Angew. Chem. Int. Edit. 40, 2954 (2001).
25. Ryczkowski, J., Catal. Today 68, 263 (2001).
26. Spoto, G., Gribov, E.N., Ricchiardi, G., Damin, A., Scarano, D., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., and
Zecchina, A., Prog. Surf. Sci. 76, 71 (2004).
27. Meier, R.J., Chem. Soc. Rev. 34, 743 (2005).
28. Zecchina, A., Spoto, G., and Bordiga, S., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 7, 1627 (2005).
29. Damoense, L., Datt, M., Green, M., and Steenkamp, C., Coord. Chem. Rev. 248, 2393 (2004).
30. Kamer, P.C.J., van Rooy, A., Schoemaker, G.C., and van Leeuwen, P., Coord. Chem. Rev. 248,
2409 (2004).
31. Grunwaldt, J.D., Wandeler, R., and Baiker, A., Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 45, 1 (2003).
32. Hind, A.R., Bhargava, S.K., and McKinnon, A., Adv. Colloid. Interf. Sci. 93, 91 (2001).
33. Nakamura, R., Imanishi, A., Murakoshi, K., and Nakato, Y., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 7443 (2003).
34. Burgi, T., and Baiker, A., J. Phys. Chem. B 106, 10649 (2002).
35. Bonalumi, N., Vargas, A., Ferri, D., Burgi, T., Mallat, T., and Baiker, A., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127,
8467 (2005).
36. Somorjai, G.A., Chem. Rev. 96, 1223 (1996).
37. Sheppard, N., and De la Cruz, C., Adv. Catal. 42, 181 (1998).
38. Somorjai, G.A., and Rupprechter, G., J. Phys. Chem. B 103, 1623 (1999).
39. Somorjai, G.A., and McCrea, K.R., Adv. Catal. 45, 385 (2000).
40. Zaera, F., Prog. Surf. Sci. 69, 1 (2001).
41. Chen, Z., Shen, Y.R., and Somorjai, G.A., Ann. Rev. Phys. Chem. 53, 437 (2002).
42. Freund, H.J., Baumer, M., Libuda, J., Risse, T., Rupprechter, G., and Shaikhutdinov, S., J. Catal.
216, 223 (2003).
43. Rupprechter, G., Morkel, M., Freund, H.J., and Hirschl, R., Surf. Sci. 554, 43 (2004).
44. Ozensoy, E., and Goodman, D.W., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 6, 3765 (2004).
45. Zaera, F., Chem. Rec. 5, 133 (2005).
46. Wang, H.F., Gan, W., Lu, R., Rao, Y., and Wu, B.H., Int. Rev. Phys. Chem. 24, 191 (2005).
47. Weckhuysen, B.M., Chem. Commun. 97 (2002).
48. Bru
¨ ckner, A., Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 45, 97 (2003).
49. Brandhorst, M., Cristol, S., Capron, M., Dujardin, C., Vezin, H., Le bourdon, G., and Payen, E.,
Catal. Today 113, 34 (2006).
50. Tinnemans, S.J., Mesu, J.G., Kervinen, K., Visser, T., Nijhuis, T.A., Beale, A.M., Keller, D.E.,
van der Eerden, A.M.J., and Weckhuysen, B.M., Catal. Today 113, 3 (2006).
51. Anderson, J.A., Liu, Z.Q., and Garcia, M.F., Catal. Today 113, 25 (2006).
52. Zecchina, A., and Otero Arean, C., Chem. Soc. Rev. 25, 187 (1996).
53. Zecchina, A., Spoto, G., and Bordiga, S., in ‘‘Handbook of Vibrational Spectroscopy’’
(J.M. Chalmers and P.R.Grifﬁths, Eds.), Vol 4, p. 3042. J.W. Sons, Chichester, 2002.
54. Iwamoto, M., Yahiro, H., Torikai, Y., Yoshioka, T., and Mizuno, N., Chem. Lett. 19, 1967 (1990).
55. Sato, S., Yoshihiro, Y., Yahiro, H., Mizuno, N., and Iwamoto, M., Appl. Catal. 70, L1 (1991).
56. Iwamoto, M., Yahiro, H., Tanda, K., Mizuno, N., Mine, Y., and Kagawa, S., J. Phys. Chem. 95,
3727 (1991).
57. Iwamoto, M., Yahiro, H., Mizuno, N., Zhang, W.X., Mine, Y., Furukawa, H., and Kagawa, S.,
J. Phys. Chem. 96, 9360 (1992).
58. Li, Y.J., and Hall, W.K., J. Phys. Chem. 94, 6145 (1990).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
68
59. Li, Y.J., and Hall, W.K., J. Catal. 129, 202 (1991).
60. Shelef, M., Chem. Rev. 95, 209 (1995).
61. Giamello, E., Murphy, D., Magnacca, G., Morterra, C., Shioya, Y., Nomura, T., and Anpo, M.,
J. Catal. 136, 510 (1992).
62. Kuroda, Y., Kotani, A., Maeda, H., Moriwaki, H., Morimato, T., and Nagao, M., J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 88, 1583 (1992).
63. Gru
¨ nert, W., Hayes, N.W., Joyner, R.W., Shpiro, E.S., Siddiqui, M.R.H., and Baeva, G.N.,
J. Phys. Chem. 98, 10832 (1994).
64. Dedecek, J., and Wichterlova, B., J. Phys. Chem. 98, 5721 (1994).
65. Dedecek, J., Sobalik, Z., Tvaruzkova, Z., Kaucky, D., and Wichterlova, B., J. Phys. Chem. 99,
16327 (1995).
66. Wichterlova, B., Dedecek, J., and Vondrova, A., J. Phys. Chem. 99, 1065 (1995).
67. Beutel, T., Sarkany, J., Lei, G.D., Yan, J.Y., and Sachtler, W.M.H., J. Phys. Chem. 100, 845 (1996).
68. Kumashiro, P., Kuroda, Y., and Nagao, M., J. Phys. Chem. B 103, 89 (1999).
69. Turnes Palomino, G., Fisicaro, P., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Giamello, E., and Lamberti, C.,
J. Phys. Chem. B 104, 4064 (2000).
70. Llabre
´ s i Xamena, F.X., Fisicaro, P., Berlier, G., Zecchina, A., Palomino, G.T., Prestipino, C.,
Bordiga, S., Giamello, E., and Lamberti, C., J. Phys. Chem. B 107, 7036 (2003).
71. Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Scarano, D., and Zecchina, A., Catal. Lett. 13, 39 (1992).
72. Spoto, G., Zecchina, A., Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Martra, G., Leofanti, G., and Petrini, G.,
Appl. Catal. B 3, 151 (1994).
73. Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Scarano, D., Zecchina, A., and Geobaldo, F., J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 91, 3285 (1995).
74. Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Salvalaggio, M., Spoto, G., Zecchina, A., Geobaldo, F., Vlaic, G., and
Bellatreccia, M., J. Phys. Chem. B 101, 344 (1997).
75. Zecchina, A., Bordiga, S., Salvalaggio, M., Spoto, G., Scarano, D., and Lamberti, C., J. Catal. 173,
540 (1998).
76. Zecchina, A., Bordiga, S., Palomino, G.T., Scarano, D., Lamberti, C., and Salvalaggio, M.,
J. Phys. Chem. B 103, 3833 (1999).
77. Lamberti, C., Palomino, G.T., Bordiga, S., Berlier, G., D’Acapito, F., and Zecchina, A., Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 39, 2138 (2000).
78. Bolis, V., Maggiorini, S., Meda, L., D’Acapito, F., Palomino, G.T., Bordiga, S., and Lamberti, C.,
J. Chem. Phys. 113, 9248 (2000).
79. Turnes Palomino, G., Zecchina, A., Giamello, E., Fisicaro, P., Berlier, G., Lamberti, C., and
Bordiga, S., Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 130, 2915 (2000).
80. Bolis, V., Bordiga, S., Palomino, G.T., Zecchina, A., and Lamberti, C., Thermochim. Acta 379, 131
(2001).
81. Prestipino, C., Berlier, G., Llabre
´ s i Xamena, F.X., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Palomino,
G.T., Yamamoto, T., and Lamberti, C., Chem. Phys. Lett. 363, 389 (2002).
82. Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Bonino, F., Prestipino, C., Berlier, G., Capello, L., D’Acapito, F.,
Xamena, F.X.L.I., and Zecchina, A., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5, 4502 (2003).
83. Bolis, V., Barbaglia, A., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A., J. Phys. Chem. B 108, 9970
(2004).
84. Rodriguez-Santiago, L., Sierka, M., Branchadell, V., Sodupe, M., and Sauer, J., J. Am. Chem. Soc.
120, 1545 (1998).
85. Nachtigallova, D., Nachtigall, P., Sierka, M., and Sauer, J., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 1, 2019
(1999).
86. Nachtigall, P., Nachtigallova, D., and Sauer, J., J. Phys. Chem. B 104, 1738 (2000).
87. Nachtigallova, D., Nachtigall, P., and Sauer, J., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 3, 1552 (2001).
88. Calzaferri, G., Leiggener, C., Glaus, S., Schurch, D., and Kuge, K., Chem. Soc. Rev. 32, 29 (2003).
89. Davidova, M., Nachtigallova, D., Bulanek, R., and Nachtigall, P., J. Phys. Chem. B 107, 2327
(2003).
90. Bludsky, O., Silhan, M., Nachtigallova, D., and Nachtigall, P., J. Phys. Chem. A 107, 10381 (2003).
91. Davidova, M., Nachtigallova, D., Nachtigall, P., and Sauer, J., J. Phys. Chem. B 108, 13674 (2004).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
69
92. Lamberti, C., Spoto, G., Scarano, D., Paze, C., Salvalaggio, M., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A.,
Palomino, G.T., and DAcapito, F., Chem. Phys. Lett. 269, 500 (1997).
93. Turnes Palomino, G., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Marra, G.L., and Lamberti, C., J. Phys. Chem. B
104, 8641 (2000).
94. Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Salvalaggio, M., Geobaldo, F., and Arean, C.O., J. Chem.
Soc. Faraday Trans. 94, 1519 (1998).
95. Bordiga, S., Paze
´ , C., Berlier, G., Scarano, D., Spoto, G., Zecchina, A., and Lamberti, C., Catal.
Today 70, 91 (2001).
96. Turnes Palomino, G., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., Zecchina, A., and Otero Arean, C., Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 142, 199 (2002).
97. Prestipino, C., Capello, L., D’Acapito, F., and Lamberti, C., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 7, 1743
(2005).
98. Rack, J.J., Webb, J.D., and Strauss, S.H., Inorg. Chem. 35, 277 (1996).
99. Rack, J.J., and Strauss, S.H., Catal. Today 36, 99 (1997).
100. Willner, H., and Aubke, F., Angew. Chem. Int. Edit. 36, 2403 (1997).
101. Strauss, S.H., J. Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. 1 (2000).
102. Lupinetti, A.J., Strauss, S.H., and Frenking, G., Prog. Inorg. Chem. 49, 1 (2001).
103. Xu, Q., Coord. Chem. Rev. 231, 83 (2002).
104. Mogi, K., Sakai, Y., Sonoda, T., Xu, Q., and Souma, Y., J. Phys. Chem. A 107, 3812 (2003).
105. Kuroda, Y., Yoshikawa, Y., Konno, S., Hamano, H., Maeda, H., Kumashiro, R., and Nagao, M.,
J. Phys. Chem. 99, 10621 (1995).
106. Yamazaki, T., Watanuki, I., Ozawa, S., and Ogino, Y., Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 61, 1039 (1988).
107. Geobaldo, F., Lamberti, C., Ricchiardi, G., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Palomino, G.T., and Arean,
C.O., J. Phys. Chem. 99, 11167 (1995).
108. Zecchina, A., Arean, C.O., Palomino, G.T., Geobaldo, F., Lamberti, C., Spoto, G., and Bordiga,
S., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 1, 1649 (1999).
109. Kuroda, Y., Yoshikawa, Y., Emura, S., Kumashiro, R., and Nagao, M., J. Phys. Chem. B 103, 2155
(1999).
110. Kuroda, Y., Kumashiro, R., Itadani, A., Nagao, M., and Kobayashi, H., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.
3, 1383 (2001).
111. Kuroda, Y., Okamoto, T., Kumashiro, R., Yoshikawa, Y., and Nagao, M., Chem. Commun. 1758
(2002).
112. Iwamoto, M., and Hoshino, Y., Inorg. Chem. 35, 6918 (1996).
113. Hadjiivanov, K.I., Kantcheva, M.M., and Klissurski, D.G., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 92, 4595
(1996).
114. Bordiga, S., Platero, E.E., Arean, C.O., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A., J. Catal. 137, 179 (1992).
115. Schlapbach, L., and Zu
¨ ttel, A., Nature 414, 353 (2001).
116. Stone, F.S., Garrone, E., and Zecchina, A., Mater. Chem. Phys. 13, 331 (1985).
117. Diwald, O., and Kno
¨ zinger, E., J. Phys. Chem. B 106, 3495 (2002).
118. Sterrer, M., Berger, T., Diwald, O., and Kno
¨ zinger, E., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 195 (2003).
119. Chiesa, M., Paganini, M.C., Giamello, E., Di Valentin, C., and Pacchioni, G., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
42, 1759 (2003).
120. Coluccia, S., Boccuzzi, F., Ghiotti, G., and Morterra, C., J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 78, 2111
(1982).
121. Garrone, E., and Stone, F.S., J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 83, 1237 (1987).
122. Kno
¨ zinger, E., Jacob, K.H., and Hofmann, P., J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 89, 1101 (1993).
123. Ricci, D., Di Valentin, C., Pacchioni, G., Sushko, P.V., Shluger, A.L., and Giamello, E., J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 125, 738 (2003).
124. Gribov, E.N., Bertarione, S., Scarano, D., Lamberti, C., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., J. Phys.
Chem. B 108, 16174 (2004).
125. Bordiga, S., Garrone, E., Lamberti, C., Zecchina, A., Otero Arean, C., Kazansky, V.B., and
Kustov, L.M., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 90, 3367 (1994).
126. Heidberg, J., Gushanskaya, N., Scho
¨ neka
¨ s, O., and Schwarte, R., Surf. Sci. 331–333, 1473 (1995).
127. Sigl, M., Ernst, S., Weitkamp, J., and Kno
¨ zinger, H., Catal. Lett. 45, 27 (1997).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
70
128. Briquez, S., Picaud, S., Girardet, C., Hoang, P.N.M., Heidberg, J., and Vossberg, A., J. Chem.
Phys. 109, 6435 (1998).
129. Kazansky, V.B., Borovkov, V.Y., Serich, A., and Karge, H.G., Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 22, 251
(1998).
130. Kazansky, V.B., Jentoft, F.C., and Karge, H.G., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 94, 1347 (1998).
131. Stephanie-Victoire, F., Goulay, A.M., and Cohen de Lara, E., Langmuir 14, 7255 (1998).
132. Stephanie-Victoire, F., and Cohen de Lara, E., J. Chem. Phys. 109, 6469 (1998).
133. Kazansky, V.B., J. Mol. Catal. A-Chem. 141, 83 (1999).
134. Heidberg, J., Vossberg, A., Hustedt, M., Thomas, M., Briquez, S., Picaud, S., and Girardet, C.,
J. Chem. Phys. 110, 2566 (1999).
135. Otero Area
´ n, C., Manoilova, O.V., Bonelli, B., Delgado, M.R., Palomino, G.T., and Garrone, E.,
Chem. Phys. Lett. 370, 631 (2003).
136. Spoto, G., Gribov, E., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., Ricchiardi, G., Scarano, D., and Zecchina, A.,
Chem. Commun. 2768 (2004).
137. Paukshtis, E.A., Soltanov, R.I., and Yurchenko, N.E., Reaction Kinet. Catal. Lett. 16, 93 (1981).
138. Otero Area
´ n, C., Tsyganenko, A.A., Escalona Platero, E., Garrone, E., and Zecchina, A., Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 37, 3161 (1998).
139. Dulaurent, O., and Bianchi, D., Appl. Catal. A. Gen. 207, 211 (2001).
140. Haw, J.F., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 4, 5431 (2002).
141. Stocker, M., Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 29, 3 (1999).
142. Chang, C.D., Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 25, 1 (1983).
143. Dahl, I.M., and Kolboe, S., Catal. Lett. 20, 329 (1993).
144. Dahl, I.M., and Kolboe, S., J. Catal. 149, 458 (1994).
145. Dahl, I.M., and Kolboe, S., J. Catal. 161, 304 (1996).
146. Haw, J.F., Nicholas, J.B., Song, W.G., Deng, F., Wang, Z.K., Xu, T., and Heneghan, C.S., J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 122, 4763 (2000).
147. Mikkelsen, O., Ronning, P.O., and Kolboe, S., Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 40, 95 (2000).
148. Hunter, E.P.L., and Lias, S.G., J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data 27, 413 (1998).
149. Bjorgen, M., Bonino, F., Kolboe, S., Lillerud, K.P., Zecchina, A., and Bordiga, S., J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 125, 15863 (2003).
150. Bjorgen, M., Bonino, F., Kolboe, S., Lillerud, K.P., Zecchina, A., and Bordiga, S., ChemPhysChem.
6, 232 (2005).
151. Reed, C.A., Kim, K.C., Stoyanov, E.S., Stasko, D., Tham, F.S., Mueller, L.J., and Boyd, P.D.W.,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 1796 (2003).
152. Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Spoto, G., Scarano, D., Carnelli, L., Zecchina, A., and Otero Arean, C.,
J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 89, 1843 (1993).
153. Piaggio, P., Dellepiane, G., Mulazzi, E., and Tubino, R., Polymer 28, 563 (1987).
154. Rabolt, J.F., Clarke, T.C., and Street, G.B., J. Chem. Phys. 71, 4614 (1979).
155. Villar, H.O., Dupuis, M., and Clementi, E., J. Chem. Phys. 88, 5252 (1988).
156. Bordiga, S., Roggero, I., Ugliengo, P., Zecchina, A., Bolis, V., Artioli, G., Buzzoni, R., Marra, G.,
Rivetti, F., Spano, G., and Lamberti, C., J. Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. 3921 (2000).
157. Paze, C., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., Salvalaggio, M., Zecchina, A., and Bellussi, G., J. Phys. Chem.
B 101, 4740 (1997).
158. Kno
¨ zinger, H., in ‘‘The Hydrogen Bond. Recent Developments in Theory and Experiments’’
(P. Shuster, G. Zundel and C. Sandorfy, Eds.), Vol 3, p. 1263. North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1976.
159. Zecchina, A., Bordiga, S., Spoto, G., Scarano, D., Spano, G., and Geobaldo, F., J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 92, 4863 (1996).
160. Zecchina, A., Geobaldo, F., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Ricchiardi, G., Buzzoni, R., and Petrini, G.,
J. Phys. Chem. B 100, 16584 (1996).
161. Bolis, V., Busco, C., Bordiga, S., Ugliengo, P., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A., Appl. Surf. Sci. 196,
56 (2002).
162. Pereira, C., Kokotailo, G.T., and Gorte, R.J., J. Phys. Chem. 95, 705 (1991).
163. Bjorgen, M., Lillerud, K.P., Olsbye, U., Bordiga, S., and Zecchina, A., J. Phys. Chem. B 108, 7862
(2004).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
71
164. Anderson, J.R., Mole, T., and Christov, V., J. Catal. 61, 477 (1980).
165. Bolis, V., Vedrine, J.C., Van de Berg, J.P., Wolthuizen, J.P., and Derouane, E.G., J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 76, 1606 (1980).
166. van den Berg, J.P., Wolthuizen, J.P., and van Hooff, J.H.C., J. Catal. 80, 139 (1983).
167. Guglielminotti, E., Coluccia, S., Garrone, E., Cerruti, L., and Zecchina, A., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday
Trans. I 75, 96 (1979).
168. Zaki, M.I., and Kno
¨ zinger, H., Spectrochim. Acta A 43, 1455 (1987).
169. Zecchina, A., Coluccia, S., Spoto, G., Scarano, D., and Marchese, L., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans.
86, 703 (1990).
170. Babaeva, M.A., Bystrov, D.S., Kovaligia, A.Y., and Tsyganenko, A.A., J. Catal. 123, 396 (1990).
171. Marchese, L., Coluccia, S., Martra, G., and Zecchina, A., Surf. Sci. 269/270, 135 (1992).
172. Coluccia, S., Baricco, M., Marchese, L., Martra, G., and Zecchina, A., Spectrochim. Acta A 49,
1289 (1993).
173. Ito, T., Kobayashi, H., and Tashiro, T., Il Nuovo Cimento D 19, 1695 (1997).
174. Coluccia, S., and Marchese, L., Catal. Today 41, 229 (1998).
175. Lu, X., Xu, X., Wang, N.Q., and Zhang, Q.N., J. Phys. Chem. B 104, 10024 (2000).
176. Frisch, M.J., Trucks, G.W., Schlegel, H.B., Scuseria, G.E., Robb, M.A., Cheeseman, J.R.,
Zakrzewski, V.G., Montgomery, J.J.A., Stratmann, R.E., Burant, J.C., Dapprich, S., Millam, J.M.,
Daniels, A.D., Kudin, K.N., Strain, M.C., Farkas, O., Tomasi, J., Barone, V., Cossi, M., Cammi,
R., Mennucci, B., Pomelli, C., Adamo, C., Clifford, S., Ochterski, J., Petersson, G.A., Ayala, P.Y.,
Cui, Q., Morokuma, K., Malick, D.K., Rabuck, A.D., Raghavachari, K., Foresman, J.B.,
Cioslowski, J., Ortiz, J.V., Baboul, A.G., Stefanov, B.B., Liu, G., Liashenko, A., Piskorz, P.,
Komaromi, I., Gomperts, R., Martin, R.L., Fox, D.J., Keith, T., Al-Laham, M.A., Peng, C.Y.,
Nanayakkara, A., Gonzalez, C., Challacombe, M., Gill, P.M.W., Johnson, B., Chen, W., Wong,
M.W., Andres, J.L., Gonzalez, C., Head-Gordon, M., Replogle, E.S., and Pople, J.A., ‘‘Gaussian
98, Revision A.7.’’ Gaussian Inc., Pittsburgh PA, 1998.
177. Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Zecchina, A., Cocina, D., Gribov, E.N., Regli, L., Groppo, E., and Lam-
berti, C., Catal. Today 113, 65 (2006).
178. Tashiro, T., Ito, J., Sim, R.B., Miyazawa, K., Hamada, E., Toi, K., Kobayashi, H., and Ito, T.,
J. Phys. Chem. 99, 6115 (1995).
179. Theopold, K.H., Chem. technol. 27, 26 (1997).
180. Weckhuysen, B.M., and Schoonheydt, R.A., Catal. Today 51, 215 (1999).
181. Hogan, J.P., and Banks, R.L., U.S. Patent 2 825, 721 (1958).
182. McDaniel, M.P., Adv. Catal. 33, 47 (1985).
183. Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., J. Catal. 240, 172 (2006).
184. Weckhuysen, B.M., Wachs, I.E., and Shoonheydt, R.A., Chem. Rev. 96, 3327 (1996).
185. Zecchina, A., Garrone, E., Ghiotti, G., Morterra, C., and Borello, E., J. Phys. Chem. 79, 966
(1975).
186. Nishimura, M., and Thomas, J.M., Catal. Lett. 21, 149 (1993).
187. Vuurman, M.A., Wachs, I.E., Stufkens, D.J., and Oskam, A., J. Mol. Catal. 80, 209 (1993).
188. Kim, D.S., Tatibouet, J.M., and Wachs, I.E., J. Catal. 136, 209 (1992).
189. Kim, D.S., and Wachs, I.E., J. Catal. 142, 166 (1993).
190. Weckhuysen, B.M., Schoonheydt, R.A., Jehng, J.M., Wachs, I.E., Cho, S.J., Ryoo, R., Kijlstra, S.,
and Poels, E., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 91, 3245 (1995).
191. Dines, T.J., and Inglis, S., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5, 1320 (2003).
192. Groppo, E., Damin, A., Bonino, F., Zecchina, A., Bordiga, S., and Lamberti, C., Chem. Mater. 17,
2019 (2005).
193. Groeneveld, C., Wittgen, P.P.M.M., Kersbergen van, A.M., Hestrom, P.L.M., Nuijten, C.E., and
Schuit, G.C.A., J. Catal. 59, 153 (1979).
194. Baker, L.M., and Carrick, W.L., J. Org. Chem. 33, 616 (1968).
195. Zecchina, A., Garrone, E., Morterra, C., and Coluccia, S., J. Phys. Chem. 79, 978 (1975).
196. Zecchina, A., Garrone, E., Ghiotti, G., and Coluccia, S., J. Phys. Chem. 79, 972 (1975).
197. Hogan, J.P., J. Polym. Sci. 8, 2637 (1970).
198. Merryﬁeld, R., McDaniel, M.P., and Parks, G., J. Catal. 77, 348 (1982).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
72
199. Zecchina, A., Groppo, E., Damin, A., and Prestipino, C., in ‘‘Surface and Interfacial Organome-
tallic Chemistry and Catalysis’’ (C. Cope
´ ret and B. Chaudret, Eds.), Vol 16, p. 1. Springer,
Heidelberg, 2005.
200. Espelid, O., and Borve, K.J., Catal. Lett. 75, 49 (2001).
201. Fubini, B., Ghiotti, G., Stradella, L., Garrone, E., and Morterra, C., J. Catal. 66, 200 (1980).
202. Rebenstorf, B., Acta Chem. Scand. A 31, 877 (1977).
203. Rebenstorf, B., and Larsson, R., Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 478, 119 (1981).
204. Ghiotti, G., Garrone, E., Della Gatta, G., Fubini, B., and Giamello, E., J. Catal. 80, 249 (1983).
205. Ghiotti, G., Garrone, E., and Zecchina, A., J. Mol. Catal. 46, 61 (1988).
206. Rebenstorf, B., Acta Chem. Scand. A 43, 413 (1989).
207. Rebenstorf, B., J. Mol. Catal. 56, 170 (1989).
208. Rebenstorf, B., J. Mol. Catal. 66, 59 (1991).
209. Ghiotti, G., Garrone, E., and Zecchina, A., J. Mol. Catal. 65, 73 (1991).
210. Bordiga, S., Bertarione, S., Damin, A., Prestipino, C., Spoto, G., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A.,
J. Mol. Catal. A 204, 527 (2003).
211. Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., Bordiga, S., Spoto, G., and Zecchina, A., J. Phys. Chem. B 109, 15024
(2005).
212. Damin, A., Bonino, F., Bordiga, S., Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., and Zecchina, A., ChemPhysChem.
7, 342 (2006).
213. Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Magnacca, G., and Zecchina, A., J. Catal. 236,
233 (2005).
214. Brintzinger, H.H., Fischer, D., Mulhaupt, R., Rieger, B., and Waymouth, R.M., Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 34, 1143 (1995).
215. Bo
¨ hm, L.L., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42, 5010 (2003).
216. Cossee, P., J. Catal. 3, 80 (1964).
217. Zecchina, A., Bertarione, S., Damin, A., Scarano, D., Lamberti, C., Prestipino, C., Spoto, G., and
Bordiga, S., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5, 4414 (2003).
218. Zielinski, P., and Lana, I.G.D., J. Catal. 137, 368 (1992).
219. Ayscough, P.B., Eden, C., and Steiner, H., J. Catal. 4, 278 (1965).
220. Rebenstorf, B., and Larsson, R., J. Mol. Catal. 11, 247 (1981).
221. Groeneveld, C., Wittgen, P.P.M.M., Swinnen, H.P.M., Wernsen, A., and Schuit, G.C.A., J. Catal.
83, 346 (1983).
222. Amor Nait Ajjou, J., and Scott, S.L., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122, 8968 (2000).
223. Ystenes, M., J. Catal. 129, 383 (1991).
224. Blom, R., Follestad, A., and Noel, O., J. Mol. Catal. 91, 237 (1994).
225. Groppo, E., Lamberti, C., Cesano, F., and Zecchina, A., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 8, 2453 (2006).
226. Freundlich, J.S., Schrock, R.R., Cummins, C.C., and Davis, W.M., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 116, 6476
(1994).
227. Giannini, L., Solari, E., Floriani, C., Chiesi-Villa, A., and Rizzoli, C., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120, 823
(1998).
228. Clark, A., Catal. Rev. 3, 145 (1970).
229. Groppo, E., Prestipino, C., Cesano, F., Bonino, F., Bordiga, S., Lamberti, C., Thu
¨ ne, P.C.,
Niemantsverdriet, J.W., and Zecchina, A., J. Catal. 230, 98 (2005).
230. Szymura, J.A., Dalla Lana, I.G., Fiedorow, R., and Zielinski, P.A., Macromolecules 29, 3103
(1996).
231. Myers, D.L., and Lunsford, J.H., J. Catal. 99, 140 (1986).
232. Rebenstorf, B., Z. Anorg. Algem. Chem. 513, 103 (1984).
233. Ghiotti, G., Garrone, E., Coluccia, S., Morterra, C., and Zecchina, A., J. Chem. Soc. Chem.
Commun. 1032 (1979).
234. Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., Garrone, E., Ghiotti, G., Zecchina, A., Petrini, G., and Leofanti, G., J. Mol.
Catal. 74, 175 (1992).
235. Bordiga, S., Ugliengo, P., Damin, A., Lamberti, C., Spoto, G., Zecchina, A., Spano, G., Buzzoni,
R., Dalloro, L., and Rivetti, F., Top. Catal. 15, 43 (2001).
236. Artioli, G., Lamberti, C., and Marra, G.L., Acta Cryst. B 56, 2 (2000).
INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY OF TRANSIENT SURFACE SPECIES
73
237. Vikulov, K., Spoto, G., Coluccia, S., and Zecchina, A., Catal. Lett. 16, 117 (1992).
238. Bade, O.M., Blom, R., Dahl, I.M., and Karlsson, A., J. Catal. 173, 460 (1998).
239. Snyder, R.G., J. Chem. Phys. 42, 1744 (1965).
240. Snyder, R.G., J. Chem. Phys. 47, 1316 (1967).
241. Snyder, R.G., Hsu, S.L., and Krimm, S., Spectrochim. Acta 34A, 395 (1978).
242. Snyder, R.G., Strauss, S.H., and Elliger, C.A., J. Phys. Chem. 86, 5145 (1982).
243. Porter, M.D., Bright, T.B., Allara, D.L., and Chidsey, C.E.D., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 109, 3559 (1987).
244. Singh, S., Wegmann, J., Albert, K., and Muller, K., J. Phys. Chem. B 106, 878 (2002).
245. Neumann-Singh, S., Villanueva-Garibay, J., and Muller, K., J. Phys. Chem. B 108, 1906 (2004).
246. Bre
´ , A., Chauvin, Y., and Commereuc, D., New J. Chem. 10, 535 (1986).
247. Emrich, R., Heinemann, O., Jolly, P.W., Kruger, C., and Verhovnik, G.P.J., Organometallics 16,
1511 (1997).
248. Ruddick, V.J., and Badyal, J.P.S., J. Phys. Chem. B 102, 2991 (1998).
249. Dixon, J.T., Green, M.J., Hess, F.M., and Morgan, D.H., J. Organomet. Chem. 689, 3641 (2004).
250. Agapie, T., Schofer, S.J., Labinger, J.A., and Bercaw, J.E., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 126, 1304 (2004).
251. Overett, M.J., Blann, K., Bollmann, A., Dixon, J.T., Haasbroek, D., Killian, E., Maumela, H.,
McGuinness, D.S., and Morgan, D.H., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127, 10723 (2005).
252. Tomov, A.K., Chirinos, J.J., Jones, D.J., Long, R.J., and Gibson, V.C., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127,
10166 (2005).
253. Osawa, M., in ‘‘Near-Field Optics and Surface Plasmon Polaritons.’’ (S. Kawata, S. Ohtsu and M.
Irie, Eds.), Vol. 81, p. 163. Springer, Berlin, 2001.
254. Nakamura, R., and Sato, S., Langmuir 18, 4433 (2002).
255. Sato, S., Kamada, K., and Osawa, M., Chem. Lett. 28, 15 (1999).
256. Osawa, M., Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 70, 2861 (1997).
257. Rupprechter, G., Adv. Catal. 51, 134 (2007).
258. Bru
¨ ckner, A., Adv. Catal. 51, 134 (2007).
C. LAMBERTI et al.
74
