Heterogeneous Catalysts
DOI: 10.1002/anie.200900339
Chemical Imaging of Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalytic
Solids at Different Length and Time Scales
Bert M. Weckhuysen*
Angewandte
Chemie
Keywords:
heterogeneous catalysis ·
in situ spectroscopy ·
nanoparticles ·
single-molecule
spectroscopy ·
zeolites
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4910
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
1. Introduction
1.1. Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalytic Solids
Heterogeneous catalysts are the workhorses of chemical
industry, and more than 80% of all chemicals have come into
contact with at least one catalyst material during their
manufacturing process.[1–6] Catalytic solids are very complex,
as they possess many different potential active sites in their
porous structures.[7] Determining the nature of these active
sites and elucidating their reaction mechanisms are important
intellectual challenges that are of paramount importance for
the rational design of heterogeneous catalysts. Success in
these endeavors offers the rewarding prospect of improved
formulations of existing catalytic solids and the possibility to
create more effective and selective catalysts from scratch.
Until recently, most characterization studies of catalytic
solids focused on ensemble-averaged measurements, assum-
ing that heterogeneous catalysts are spatially homogeneous
objects when placed in a catalytic reactor. Point measure-
ments (0D scans) of catalytic solids are then usually taken as a
function of reaction time to study activation and deactivation
phenomena. Such measurements allow the development of
structure–performance relationships by relating different
physicochemical properties to each other, such as activity,
selectivity, porosity, adsorption, degree of reduction, and a
multitude of spectroscopic signatures.[8–11] However, these
macroscopically determined properties are not necessarily
identical across the entire reactor bed or within a catalyst
grain. Spatiotemporal phenomena are more the rule than the
exception for heterogeneous catalysts, as the local environ-
ment strongly affects the above-mentioned macroscopic
properties. All this leads to spatial heterogeneities or reaction
fronts, which remain unnoticed when point measurements are
performed.
An archetypal example of spatiotemporal variations in
heterogeneous catalysis is the catalytic oxidation of CO with
O2 over platinum model catalysts as investigated by Ertl and
co-workers.[12] Figure 1 shows a 2D photoemission electron
microscopy (PEEM) image of the formation of spiral waves in
catalytic CO oxidation on a Pt(110) surface. Dark areas are
essentially oxygen-covered, while the lighter patches are CO-
covered. The spiral waves develop and propagate with front
speeds of a few micrometers per second, and the cores of the
spirals are often formed at a region on the Pt surface with
enhanced defect density. This effect is also responsible for the
fact that the wavelengths of the spiral waves vary to some
degree. As the reaction mechanism of CO oxidation is known
in great detail and all its parameters of influence have been
determined, it has been possible to simulate the process of
spiral wave development, which nicely matches the exper-
imental findings.
Knowledge of spatiotemporal gradients in heterogeneous
catalysts is of paramount importance for the rational design
of new and more sustainable catalytic processes. Hetero-
geneities resulting in space- and time-dependent phenomena
occur at different length scales; that is, at the level of catalytic
reactors (mm to m), catalyst bodies (mm to mm), catalyst
grains (nm to mm), and active sites and metal (oxide) particles
( to nm). This Review documents the recent advances in the
development of space- and time-resolved spectroscopic
methods for imaging spatial heterogeneities within catalytic
processes at these four length scales. Particular emphasis will
be on the use of magnetic resonance, optical, and synchro-
tron-based methods, their capabilities in providing spatial
resolution (1D and 2D imaging) and depth profiling (3D
imaging) as well as on their time-resolved application,
potential for single-molecule and nanoparticle detection, and
use under reaction conditions. The Review ends with future
prospects on spectroscopic markers for catalytic activity,
label-free spectroscopy, tomography at the nanoscale, and
correlative microscopic approaches.
From the Contents
1. Introduction
4911
1.1. Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalytic
Solids
4911
1.2. Scope
4913
2. Imaging Spatial Heterogeneities of
Catalytic Solids at Different Length and
Time Scales with Electromagnetic
Radiation
4913
2.1. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of a
Catalytic Reactor
4914
2.2. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of
Millimeter-Sized Catalyst Bodies
4921
2.3. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of
Micrometer-Sized Zeolite Crystals
4925
2.4. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of
Catalyst Nanoparticles and Single
Molecules
4932
3. Future Prospects
4937
3.1. Microscopy of Labeled Samples and
Label-Free Microscopy
4937
3.2. Towards In Situ Optical Tomography at
the Nanoscale
4938
3.3. Development of Correlative Microscopy
Approaches
4939
[*] Prof. Dr. B. M. Weckhuysen
Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis group
Debye Institute for Nanomaterials Science, Utrecht University
Sorbonnelaan 16, 3584 CA Utrecht (The Netherlands)
E-mail: b.m.weckhuysen@uu.nl
Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW
under http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200900339.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4911
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Spatiotemporal effects are, however, not limited to model
surface-science studies, but are generally expected for open
systems far from equilibrium, as is the case for all heteroge-
neous catalytic processes. In realistic heterogeneous catalytic
systems they occur at four different length scales, as schemati-
cally illustrated in Figure 2. To better visualize these different
length scales, Movie S1 is available as Supporting Informa-
tion, showing how a propane molecule travels through an
industrial dehydrogenation plant until it is finally converted
into propene and hydrogen.[13] The first level of interest is the
reactor, in which a suitable catalyst material is carefully
packed. A catalytic reactor is usually on the order of
centimeters to meters in length if a full-scale commercial
installation is considered. The catalyst performance, however,
is not the same over the entire catalyst-bed volume. When
considering a fixed-bed reactor, as is the case for the propane
dehydrogenation plant, spatiotemporal gradients in the con-
centrations of propane, propene, hydrogen, and by-products
(e.g. ethane and methane) are observed. In other words, the
concentrations of these molecules vary along both the axial
and radial directions of the catalyst bed as a function of
reaction time. Moreover, temperature gradients may also
arise from the endothermicity of the dehydrogenation
process. As a result, catalyst reduction and deactivation
phenomena may be quite different along the catalyst bed,
significantly affecting catalyst regeneration procedures.
To avoid pressure drops in gas-phase reactors, catalyst
bodies of millimeter dimensions are used. They often have
particular shapes, and reactant molecules must penetrate
through these catalyst bodies to be converted. In some cases,
the catalytically active phase has been specifically positioned
on the outer layers of the catalyst body, leading to a particular
spatial distribution of the active phase (i.e. an egg-shell
distribution). The third level at which spatial heterogeneities
may occur constitutes, for example, porous catalyst crystals or
grains of micrometer or sub-micrometer dimensions. Diffu-
Figure 1. 2D Photoemission electron microscopy (PEEM) image from
a Pt(110) surface during catalytic CO oxidation (pCO=4.3104,
pO2 =4105 mbar, T=1758C). The diameter of the picture is 500 mm.
Reproduced from reference [12].
Figure 2. Selected examples of spatial heterogeneities occurring in
heterogeneous catalysis at different length scales: a) Selected frames
from Movie S1 in the Supporting Information showing how a propane
molecule travels through an industrial dehydrogenation plant until it is
finally converted into propene and hydrogen. b) Coke and temperature
profiles over an industrial reactor spanning several meters. c) Spatial
gradients of the amount of transition-metal ion across an individual
Al2O3 catalyst body spanning several millimeters. d) Spatial gradients
of a reaction product across an individual zeolite crystal spanning
several micrometers. e) Spatial gradients of metal, metal oxide, and
metal carbide within an individual catalyst grain spanning several
nanometers.
Bert Weckhuysen, born in 1968 in Aarschot,
Belgium, received his master degree from
Leuven University (Belgium) in 1991. After
finishing his PhD studies under the super-
vision of Prof. Schoonheydt in 1995, he
worked as a postdoctoral fellow with Prof.
Wachs at Lehigh University (USA) and with
Prof. Lunsford at Texas A&M University
(USA). From 1995 until 2000 he was a
research fellow of the Belgian National
Science Foundation. Since 2000, Weckhuy-
sen has been full professor inorganic chemis-
try and catalysis at Utrecht University. He
received several research awards, including the 2002 VICI award from the
Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO), the 2006 Gold
Medal from the Royal Netherlands Society of Chemistry (KNCV), the
2007 DECHEMA Award from The Max Buchner Research Foundation
(Germany), and the 2009 Netherlands Catalysis and Chemistry Award
from the KNCV Catalysis Section and the Netherlands Organization of
Catalysis Industries. He is scientific director of the Dutch Research School
for Catalysis (NIOK) and an elected member of the Young Academy of the
Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences (KNAW), the Netherlands Academy of
Technology and Innovation (NATI), and the Royal Holland Society of
Sciences (KHMW).
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4912
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
sion of reactants and reaction products within these porous
networks, which contain a wide distribution of macro-, meso-,
and micropores, will strongly influence the overall perfor-
mance of a catalytic process. Short- and long-range cracks,
transport barriers, and dead ends in the pore structure may
lead to different diffusion pathways and related concentration
gradients, directly influencing catalyst performance and even
making some areas of the catalyst grain completely inacces-
sible for catalytic action. In other words, catalyst bodies and
grains may be inefficiently used when transport phenomena
become rate-limiting.
Finally, the catalyst grains contain active sites with
dimensions of nanometers or ngstrms. This is the fourth
important length scale at which spatial heterogeneities may
occur. Although the active site can be spatially isolated, such
as for Brønsted acid groups in zeolites, in most cases the
activity of this site is still distinct from another site spatially
positioned only a little further in the catalyst grain. This
phenomenon can be due to local changes in chemical
composition or to different reactant accessibility induced by
shape-selectivity effects. Furthermore, the number of active
sites can differ from surface to surface. In the case of
supported metal nanoparticles, for example, the reactivity and
selectivity can be tailored by controlling the shape, as shape
determines the number of atoms located at the edges and
corners.[14] In general, high-index planes have a greater
density of unsaturated atomic steps, edges, and kinks, which
can serve as active sites for the breaking and making of
chemical bonds.[15] Furthermore, these supported metal nano-
particles may coexist in a wide variety of sizes and shapes,
each possessing its own catalytic activity. The same hetero-
geneity may result when an alloying element is introduced to
the metal nanoparticle, as the alloy can be uniform or have,
for example, an egg-shell distribution.
1.2. Scope
It is no wonder that the complexity described above
complicates the development of useful structure–perfor-
mance relationships in the field of heterogeneous catalysis,
as the measured macroscopic properties, such as activity and
selectivity, are the result of a complex interplay between
different physicochemical gradients across the four important
length scales. Therefore, mastering the overall performance of
a catalytic process in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability
requires full control of the spatiotemporal phenomena taking
place from the meter scale down to the level of a few
nanometers or even smaller. Evidently, this is an enormous
task, but fortunately both academic and industrial researchers
have built up a lot of (often empirical) knowledge and
technical skill to tackle the related challenges to construct
robust and efficient catalytic processes.
This Review will show the tremendous progress we have
seen in the last decade in the field of spectroscopy for imaging
spatial heterogeneities in catalytic solids, preferably applied
under in situ conditions, leading to new physicochemical
insights at the four length scales of importance in heteroge-
neous catalysis. This will be done by highlighting space- and
time-resolved spectroscopy research on molecular transport,
catalyst preparation, and reactivity and deactivation phenom-
ena. Special emphasis will be placed on combining micro-
scopy and spectroscopy, including 1D (x scanning), 2D (x-y
scanning), 3D (x-y-z scanning or tomography), and 4D (time-
resolved x-y-z scanning) imaging, as well as by discussing
recent studies on the emerging fields of single-molecule and
single-nanoparticle detection. The Review will end with an
outlook on expected future developments in this exciting field
of research.
2. Imaging Spatial Heterogeneities of Catalytic
Solids at Different Length and Time Scales with
Electromagnetic Radiation
Three criteria are important for proper chemical imaging
of heterogeneous catalysts: spatial resolution, time resolu-
tion, and chemical information density. Each characterization
technique has its own advantages and disadvantages regard-
ing these criteria. Table 1 gives an overview of the different
characterization methods based on electromagnetic radiation
available for the imaging of catalytic solids. Techniques that
have already been applied in the field of heterogeneous
catalysis are written in italics. The methods span the whole
spectrum of electromagnetic radiation, from radio- (NMR
microscopy) and microwaves (EPR microscopy) through
infrared light (IR microscopy), visible and ultraviolet light
(UV/Vis microscopy and different forms of Raman and
fluorescent microscopy), to X-rays (e.g. STXM (scanning
transmission X-ray microscopy) and TEDDI (tomographic
energy-dispersive diffraction imaging)). A distinction must be
made between far-field (FF) methods, which make use of a
lens positioned at least a wavelength away from the object of
interest, and near-field (NF) methods. Examples of the latter
are scanning near-field infrared microscopy (SNIM) and
scanning near-field optical microscopy (SNOM), which over-
come the diffraction limits of light. All techniques rely on the
absorption, scattering, fluorescence, or diffraction of light,
and their abbreviations are explained in the footnotes of
Table 1. To give an impression of their strengths for chemical
imaging, Table 1 also includes the currently achieved spatial
resolution in the x, y, and z directions. However, spatial
resolution in microscopy is almost always limited by sensi-
tivity, and the ultimate resolutions reported have often been
obtained for unique samples that give very large signal-to-
noise (S/N) ratios. In other words, for most routine samples
the practical spatial resolution is somewhat lower than
indicated in Table 1.
Illustrative examples on the use of space- and time-
resolved in situ spectroscopy are highlighted below. These
case studies will cover reactions catalyzed by acids and bases
as well as by redox, electrochemical, and photochemical
processes involving heterogeneous catalysts applied in the gas
or liquid phase. Note that this Review is not meant to be
exhaustive but merely intends to give a general overview of
the exciting developments we have seen especially in the last
five years. Furthermore, different high-throughput screening
techniques, which often use space-resolved methods, will not
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4913
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
be covered; reference is made to articles based on IR and
fluorescence microscopy.[16]
2.1. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of a Catalytic Reactor
2.1.1. Visualizing the Spatial Variation of Esterification,
Etherification, and Hydrogenation Reactions within Fixed-
and Trickle-Bed Reactors with Magnetic Resonance
Imaging
Yuen et al. studied the spatial variation of a chemical
conversion process within a fixed-bed reactor making use of
in situ MRI.[17] To this end, they studied the liquid-phase
esterification reaction of methanol and acetic acid as cata-
lyzed by an Amberlyst ion-exchange resin. This liquid-phase
reaction can be monitored in a reactor by following the 1H
chemical shift of the hydroxy resonance associated with the
fluid in the interparticle space of the catalytic bed. In this
manner, it is possible to measure the extent of reaction non-
invasively. Figure 3a shows a 2D slice through a 1H 3D MRI
image of the fixed-bed catalyst particles (black). Three slice
sections 4.5 mm apart were selected, and volume-selective
1H NMR spectra were recorded and evaluated for each of
these slices. When the experiment was performed under
flowing conditions, distinct spatial variations occurred within
these three slice sections. These variations are evidenced by
the volume-selective spectroscopy results shown in Figure 3b
for slice III, in which ten volumes were selected and inves-
tigated. It can be seen in Figure 3c that the peak at around
7 ppm in the NMR spectrum, which arises from the
1H
resonance associated with the OH group of the liquid in the
interparticle space, displays different chemical shifts. This
finding implies significant variation in the extent of catalytic
conversion within slice III. More specifically, the fractional
variation in the conversion levels reached a value of 22%.
The authors applied the same approach for slices I and II in
the catalytic reactor, leading to the results summarized in
Figure 3d–f. It was found that the conversion increases in the
direction of the reactant flow, as expected, but that significant
heterogeneity in conversion exists within each transverse
section through the catalyst bed.
Koptyug et al. employed magnetic resonance spectro-
scopic imaging to study the behavior of a gas–liquid–solid
model catalytic reactor operating at elevated temperatures
with Pd/Al2O3 as catalyst material and the hydrogenation of
a-methylstyrene (AMS) to cumene as probe reaction.[18] The
experimental setup for these MRI experiments is illustrated
in Figure 4a. The model reactor, which can be placed directly
inside the MRI probe, consists of a system to supply H2 and
liquid AMS. The research group performed a 3D MRI
experiment with two spatial and one spectral coordinate. Such
an experiment yields a 2D map of the liquid distribution
within an axial slice through the bed, with an NMR spectrum
for each image pixel acquired in the same experimental run.
A 2D subset of the entire 3D dataset is shown in Figure 4b. It
has one spatial (vertical) and one spectral coordinate
(horizontal). The integral projection of this dataset on the
vertical axis (Figure 4c) reflects the distribution of the liquid
phase along the axial bar shown in Figure 4b, while any
horizontal cross-section is an NMR spectrum of the liquid at
the corresponding location within that bar (e.g. Figure 4d–f).
For reference, the 1H NMR spectra of pure liquid AMS and
cumene are included in Figure 4g,h. Despite substantial line
broadening in the spectra of liquids permeating porous solids,
the two spectra are still distinctly different. The essential
features are 1) the presence of the broad peak at about
5.2 ppm in Figure 4g and its absence in Figure 4 h, 2) the
different separation of the outermost peaks in the spectra, and
3) the inverted ratio of their relative intensities. These
spectral differences can clearly be observed in Figure 4d–f,
thus indicating that AMS predominates in the upper part of
the catalytic reactor; almost pure cumene is present near the
Table 1: Overview of the different characterization methods based on electromagnetic radiation available for the imaging of catalytic solids; those
indicated in italics have already been used in the field.
Light source
X-rays
UV/Vis[b]
Infrared
light
Microwaves
Radiowaves
Methods
X-ray micro-
scopy
Raman
microscopy
Fluorescence microscopy
UV/Vis
microscopy
IR micro-
scopy
ESR micro-
scopy
NMR
microscopy
currently reported far-field
lateral resolution
15 nm
500 nm–
3 mm
200–300 nm
1–3 mm
3–5 mm
3 mm
3 mm
extension to the nanoscale
possible
yes, e.g.
STXM[a]
not yet
reported
yes, e.g. STED,[d] FPALM,[e]
STORM[f]
not yet
reported
not yet
reported
under devel-
opment
not yet
reported[i]
currently reported near-field
lateral resolution and related
technique
under devel-
opment
TERS[c]
(15 nm)
SNOM[g] (30 nm)
not yet
reported
SNIM[h]
(30 nm)
potential for 3D imaging and
axial resolution
yes, 10 nm
confocal
Raman
(500 nm)
confocal fluorescence spectros-
copy (500 nm); STED (20 nm)
STORM (30 nm)
not yet
reported
yes
yes, 3 mm
yes, 3 mm
[a] Scanning transmission X-ray microscopy. [b] A promising method to circumvent the resolution barrier of conventional diffraction is to make use of
superlenses, which may bring the spatial resolution towards 10 nm; see reference [110]. [c] Tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy. [d] Stimulated
emission depletion microscopy. [e] Fluorescence photoactivated localization microscopy. [f] Stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy.
[g] Scanning near-field optical microscopy. [h] Scanning near-field infrared microscopy. [i] After submission of this manuscript, a report appeared
revealing the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with a resolution of less than 10 nm on a Tobacco Mosaic virus particle; see reference [111].
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4914
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
Figure 3. Illustration of the use of in situ MRI to observe in a fixed-bed reactor spatial gradients of the liquid-phase esterification reaction of
methanol and acetic acid over an Amberlyst-15 ion-exchange resin: a) A 2D slice through a 1H 3D RARE MRI image (RARE=rapid acquisition
relaxation enhanced) of the fixed-bed reactor filled with catalyst particles, which appear black. Three slice sections for which volume-selective
1H NMR spectra were recorded are indicated along with the direction of the flow of reactants. b) The location of 10 selected volumes within
slice III. c) The volume-selective 1H NMR spectra for the different selected volumes in (b). d–f) Measurement of catalytic conversion within
slices I, II, and III through the same bed. Reproduced from reference [17], copyright Elsevier Science B.V., 2002.
Figure 4. a) Schematic representation of the fixed-bed reactor for measuring in situ MRI for the hydrogenation of a-methylstyrene (AMS) to
cumene over a Pd/Al2O3 catalyst. The catalyst material is placed in a glass cell. Liquid reactant (AMS) is supplied through a capillary to the top of
the reactor, while a stream of hydrogen is supplied to the reactor and the temperature of the reactor volume is controlled by passing warm air
through the double-walled glass cylinder surrounding the reaction volume. A thermocouple (T) is implanted into the lower part of the reactor
through the supporting mesh. b) A mixed spatial–spectral 1H 2D MRI map, which corresponds to the axial bar marked in (a). c) The distribution
of the liquid phase along the axial bar obtained as an integral projection of (b) on its vertical axis. d–f) 1H NMR spectra of the liquid phase at
different heights along the bar obtained as horizontal cross-sections of the map in (b). The location of these cross-sections are indicated by the
horizontal lines in (b) and (c). The two vertical dotted lines are drawn to show the differences in the relative positions of the outermost peaks in
the spectra. g,h) 1H NMR spectra of AMS and cumene, respectively, obtained experimentally in solution (lower traces); the upper traces are
obtained by numerically broadening the individual NMR lines in the solution spectra from a few Hz to 300 Hz to simulate the influence of the
porous matrix on the spectral line width. Reproduced from reference [18], copyright Elsevier Science B.V., 2004.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4915
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
outlet of the catalytic reactor, while a mixture of the
two liquids is observed in the middle. In other words,
an increase of the product/reactant ratio from top to
bottom of the catalytic reactor could be observed by
MRI.
Two approaches are typically used when studying
hydrocarbon reactions with in situ MRI: either the
1H or the 13C nucleus can be monitored. As illus-
trated by the two examples above, whenever possible
the observation of the 1H nucleus is the method of
choice owing to its 99.9% natural abundance and the
related high MRI sensitivity. However, the disad-
vantage of
1H MRI is that the
1H nucleus has a
relatively narrow chemical-shift range. Furthermore,
there is 1) a large number of 1H resonances present in
a typical spectrum and 2) broadening of these
resonances as a result of decreased spin–spin relax-
ation times arising from the large solid–liquid inter-
face within a given sample. These detractors make
the spectral assignment and the quantification of
peak areas rather difficult, leading to complications
in the use of 1H MRI for studying catalytic reactions.
For observation of the 13C nucleus, spectral assign-
ment is easier, because
13C has a much wider
chemical-shift range than 1H, thereby reducing the
number of overlapping peaks. Unfortunately, the
natural abundance of 13C is only 1.07%, and its MRI
sensitivity is much lower than that of 1H. Molecules
of interest could be enriched with
13C, but such
methods are very expensive for in situ MRI experi-
ments under flow conditions.
To circumvent this problem, Akpa et al. devel-
oped an MRI method based on the natural abun-
dance of 13C, referred as 13C distortionless enhance-
ment by polarization transfer (DEPT) MRI.[19] This
approach has been used to monitor the competitive
etherification and hydration reactions of 2-methyl-2-
butene (2M2B) over an ion-exchange resin in a fixed-
bed reactor. The etherification and hydration reac-
tion products are tert-amyl methyl ether (TAME)
and tert-amyl alcohol (TAOH). Figure 5a–c shows how the
double phase-encoded 13C DEPT-MRI pulse sequence ach-
ieves both spatial and spectral resolution within the reactor.
Figure 5a illustrates a 1H 2D spin-echo image through the
reactor, which is overlaid with a grid showing the location of
the two orthogonal phase-encoded planes (z and x). The
intersection of the white lines marks the center of each
volume from which the data have been taken. The corre-
sponding real-space volume elements are given in Figure 5b.
The individual volume elements have been separated but
actually represent a continuous array, leading to the corre-
sponding high-quality 13C NMR spectra shown in Figure 5c. It
is important to note that the decreasing signal intensity
towards the walls of the bed arises from the smaller volumes
from which the data are sampled. Figure 5d shows the
spatially resolved 13C DEPT-NMR spectra recorded for the
competitive etherification and hydration reactions of 2M2B
to TAME and TAOH. The spectra were obtained for the
different heights within the catalytic reactor as indicated in
Figure 5a. The average conversion and selectivity from these
spectra acquired from columns 1–5 at each axial location are
summarized in Figure 5e. Over a 1.5 cm height of the catalytic
bed, it was found that the conversion increased by about 30%,
while the selectivity lies in the range of 75–80%. At any given
axial position, both conversion and selectivity also vary across
the transverse plane. In particular, it was found that the
relatively low conversions in columns 1 and 5 are consistent
with the faster flow rates and hence with reduced feed–
catalyst contact time observed near the reactor wall.
Making use of the same spatially resolved 13C DEPT-MRI
method, Sederman et al. successfully investigated 1-octene
hydrogenation over a 1 wt% Pd/Al2O3 catalyst in a trickle-
bed reactor.[20] Figure 6a,b shows 2D maps of 13C DEPT-MRI
spectra spatially resolved along the length of the catalytic
reactor. Any horizontal cut through the 2D maps recovers a
13C 1D DEPT-NMR spectrum, as shown in Figure 6d,e. The
two solid horizontal white lines indicate the limits of the
catalyst packing within the bed. Above and below the white
Figure 5. Schematic illustration of how the double phase-encoded 13C DEPT-MRI
pulse sequence achieves both spatial and spectral resolution within a catalytic
reactor for the competitive etherification and hydration reactions of 2-methyl-2-
butene (2M2B) over an Amberlyst-15 ion-exchange resin. a) A 2D 1H spin–echo
image taken through the reactor and overlaid with a grid showing the location of
the two orthogonal phase-encoded planes. b) The corresponding real-space
volume elements. c) The 13C NMR spectra associated with these volume
elements. d) Spatially resolved 13C DEPT-MRI spectra recorded for the conver-
sion of 2M2B to tert-amyl methyl ether (TAME) and tert-amyl alcohol (TAOH).
The spectra are recorded at different heights within the bed. e) Conversion (*)
and selectivity to TAME (&) as a function of the axial position in the catalytic
bed. Reproduced from reference [19], copyright Royal Society of Chemistry, 2005.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4916
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
lines, the reactor is packed with pure alumina support. Since
the reactor was operated under H2-poor conditions, signifi-
cant conversion into the product octane was neither expected
nor observed. Figure 6c shows a
1H 2D image of liquid
distribution within the catalyst bed. 1H signals from all liquid
species present were recorded, and higher liquid content
corresponds to lighter color. Qualitative interpretation of the
data confirms that above the Pd/Al2O3 catalyst material, only
1-octene exists within the bed, as identified by peaks
occurring at around d = 114 and 139 ppm. As soon as the 1-
octene feed reaches the catalyst material, additional peaks in
the spectrum are observed at around d = 124 and 131 ppm,
indicating the formation of predominantly 2-octene isomers.
The total integrated intensity of the spectral features in the
olefinic region decreases, thus confirming that some hydro-
genation to octane has occurred along the length of the bed.
More detailed analysis of the individual spectra shows 1) a
loss of spectral intensity at around d = 34 ppm, consistent with
loss of 1-octene, 2) the appearance of a peak at d = 18 ppm
confirming the formation of trans-2-octene, and 3) that
relatively little 3- and 4-octenes are formed, as no spectral
intensity is detected at around d = 129 ppm.
A final example of the application of in situ MRI to study
catalytic reactions in reactors involves the use of para-
hydrogen (para-H2). Gas-phase MRI suffers from low sensi-
tivity, which makes it difficult to image void spaces in porous
materials. This limitation has led to the use of hyperpolarized
gases, such as 129Xe, 3He, and 83Kr, but hyperpolarized noble
gases and polarization instruments are generally expensive.
Another method for producing hyperpolarized fluids is by
using para-H2, which has zero total nuclear angular momen-
tum (I = 0) and is therefore not detectable in an NMR
experiment. This para-H2 is cheap, as it can be easily obtained
by passing hydrogen gas over an iron-containing catalyst at
the temperature of liquid N2 (1968C) Bouchard et al. used
the signal enhancement by para-H2 to image a catalytic gas-
phase reaction. More specifically, they investigated the
hydrogenation of propene to propane by a silica-supported
Wilkinson catalyst ([RhCl(PPh3)2PPh2(CH2)2]-SiO2).[21,22] The
protons derived from para-H2 in the formed propane preserve
their nuclear spin singlet state. The reactant–product mixture
is adiabatically transferred to the high field of the NMR
magnet, leading to specific population differences according
to an experimental scheme referred to as ALTADENA
(adiabatic longitudinal transport and dissociation engenders
net alignment). The resulting NMR signal is enhanced
compared to what is achievable with thermal population of
spin states. It was found that a strong enhancement could be
observed using para-H2 when comparing the 2D images of a
propene gas-phase flow in a porous medium from the
unpolarized propene and the ALTADENA-polarized pro-
pane peaks.
2.1.2. Probing Rh/Al2O3 and Rh/Pt/Al2O3 Catalysts During the
Partial Oxidation of Methane with Spatially Resolved X-ray
Absorption Spectroscopy
The catalytic partial oxidation of methane over supported
noble metal particles such as rhodium and platinum is
regarded as one of the most promising processes for the
production of hydrogen. Grunwaldt et al. observed a strong
spatial dependence of the Rh oxidation state in a micro-
reactor filled with Rh/Al2O3 catalyst material during the
partial oxidation of methane to CO, H2, CO2, and H2O. 2D
mapping of Rh species in the catalytic reactor was possible
using XANES spectroscopy (XANES = X-ray absorption
near-edge structure) with a CCD X-ray camera in a reaction
cell fitted with a gas supply and coupled to online mass
spectrometry.[23]
Figure 7a
illustrates
the
experimental
approach. The method was used to determine the distribution
of oxidized and reduced Rh species as a function of position in
the reactor, reaction time, reaction temperature, and space
velocity. Figure 7b–g depicts the 2D X-ray transmission
images of the catalyst taken at different energies. At each
energy, metal particles can be identified by their specific X-
ray absorption. Below the energy of the Rh K edge
(23220 eV, Figure 7b), the X-ray absorption is much smaller
than above the edge (23230, 23235, and 23240 eV, Figure 7d–
f). Moreover, the absorption is similar over the whole catalyst
bed below the Rh K edge, whereas above the Rh K edge, in
particular at 23235 and 23240 eV, the X-ray absorption is
higher on the left side of the reactor, near the gas inlet. The
higher X-ray absorption (corresponding to the brighter spots
on the left) can be explained by the presence of more oxidized
Rh on the left side, as oxidized Rh species are much stronger
white-light absorbers. For each position in the reactor area,
the X-ray absorption spectrum is reconstructed by compar-
Figure 6. 2D map of 13C DEPT-MRI spectra recorded along the length
of a trickle reactor bed for 1-octene isomerization and hydrogenation
over a 1 wt% Pd/Al2O3 catalyst. Separate acquisitions were made for
the a) olefinic and b) aliphatic regions of the 13C DEPT-MRI spectra.
c) 2D 1H MRI image of the spatial distribution of liquid within the
catalyst bed. Higher liquid contents are identified by lighter colors. The
white horizontal lines indicate the limits of the catalyst packing,
separating the catalyst from the pure Al2O3. d,e) Corresponding 13C
DEPT-MRI spectra measured at the interface between the 1 wt% Pd/
Al2O3 catalyst and Al2O3 corresponding to the 2D maps in (a) and (b),
respectively. Reproduced from reference [20], copyright Springer, 2005.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4917
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
ison with the spectra of different Rh species and fitting by
least-squares methods. In this way, it has been possible to
create 2D maps of the Rh oxidation-state distribution in the
catalytic reactor. An example of such a 2D map is shown in
Figure 7h,i. On the right side, mainly Rh0 is found (Fig-
ure 7h), while on the left side Rh3+ is detected (Figure 7i).
There is a sharp (ca. 100–200 mm) cone-shaped gradient of
reduced Rh species.
In subsequent studies, Hannemann et al. and Grunwaldt
et al. showed that the position of the Rh3+/Rh0 front is a
function of the space velocity and the reaction temper-
ature.[24,25] It was found that the Rh3+/Rh0 front moved
towards the reactor outlet (overall more Rh3+ in the reactor)
with increasing space velocity. As expected, these changes in
space velocity were reflected in the catalytic performance,
and the yield of H2 and CO decreased. Alternatively, an
increase in temperature shifts the Rh3+/Rh0 front towards the
reactor inlet (overall less Rh3+ in the reactor). These spatial
reactor gradients can be related to the reaction mechanism.
Below the ignition temperature of the partial methane
oxidation reaction, Rh is mainly in its oxidized state. Above
the ignition temperature, the amount of H2 and CO produced
is correlated to the position of the Rh3+/Rh0 front in the
reactor. The front shifts towards the reactor inlet when the
selectivity for H2 and CO increases. Both a catalytic
combustion and reforming mechanism and a direct particle
oxidation mechanism to H2O and CO2 have been reported.
As long as Rh remains in the oxidized state, methane is totally
combusted. The appearance of H2 and CO in the gas outlet
coincides with the formation of Rh0 species in
the downstream part of the reactor, which
promotes the catalytic combustion and reform-
ing.
2.1.3. Imaging Pt–Ba/CeO2 NOx Storage and
Reduction, Cr/Al2O3 Alkane
Dehydrogenation, and Pt-Based Electro-
catalysts with Infrared, Raman, and
UV/Vis Spectroscopy
Urakawa et al. investigated a Pt–Ba/CeO2
NOx storage–reduction (NSR) catalyst by a
combination of diffuse reflectance infrared
Fourier transform (DRIFT) and Raman spec-
troscopy.[26] The combined approach is based
on a switch between DRIFT and Raman
spectroscopy within a single setup. The plug
flow cell design, schematically illustrated in
Figure 8a, allows fast exchange of gaseous
atmosphere between lean (oxidative atmos-
phere) and rich (reductive atmosphere) peri-
ods. The spectral detection perpendicular to
the axial direction of the catalyst bed allows
gradient profiling and identification of chem-
ical species along the bed. During the lean
periods, NO is oxidized to NO2 over platinum
and stored on barium oxide in the form of
nitrates, whereas during rich periods the stored
NOx is released and reduced to N2 over
platinum; concomitantly the barium oxide is regenerated
for NOx storage. Figure 8b shows the NOx concentrations
during an NSR cycle. During the first 30 s of the lean period,
nearly complete storage of NOx was observed. Afterwards the
storage rate dropped but still showed approximately 90%
storage of the incoming gaseous NOx. Very little NO2 was
observed in the off-gas during the lean period, indicating that
all NO2 formed over the platinum sites was captured by the
barium oxide or CeO2 surface. After switching to rich
conditions, the NO concentration decreased rapidly. The 2D
maps of the DRIFT and Raman spectra during an NSR cycle
at three reactor locations are given in Figure 8c–e and
Figure 8 f–h, respectively. Remarkable spectral differences
were observed along the catalyst bed. The formation of
nitrites and nitrates was significantly delayed and the band
intensities decreased considerably on moving from the front
to the back position. In the DRIFT spectra (Figure 8c–e), the
most striking difference during the lean period, besides the
band intensities, is the formation of nitrites. These species
were observed immediately at the front position but were
delayed by 70 and 120 s at the middle and back positions,
respectively. On the other hand, nitrates were formed from
the beginning of the lean period, independent of the bed
position. The temporal profiles of surface nitrate bands at
1028 and 1570 cm1 were similar to that at 1260 cm1. The
chemical changes that occur during the NSR cycle are likely
accompanied by gradual structural reordering, that is, changes
in the crystallinity of the solid during nitrate penetration from
the surface into the bulk of the barium oxide. Furthermore,
Figure 7. a) Side view of the experimental setup for spatially resolved X-ray absorption spectrosco-
py of a catalytic reactor for measuring a Rh/Al2O3 catalyst during the partial oxidation of methane.
The full-field imaging makes use of a position-sensitive detector and a conventional step-scanning
monochromator. b–g) Flat- and dark-field-corrected 2D X-ray transmission images of the Rh/Al2O3
catalyst inside the spectroscopic cell at different energies at 2838C. h,i) 2D plots of the amount of
reduced (h) and oxidized (i) Rh species obtained from the data shown in (b)–(g). Reproduced
from reference [23], copyright American Chemical Society, 2006.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4918
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
during the rich period, a remarkable difference in the
reduction behavior of nitrites and nitrates was detected.
Nitrites were first reduced or desorbed from the surface and
then the reduction of nitrates followed, as clearly indicated by
a significant delay of the corresponding signals at the middle
and back positions of the catalytic reactor. The large amount
of NO released from the catalyst at the beginning of the rich
period is likely related to the disappearance of surface nitrites,
thus suggesting decomposition of the nitrites and consequent
release of NO into the gas phase. Moreover, the Raman
spectra shown in Figure 8 f–h clearly indicate the difference in
the amount of formed bulk Ba(NO3)2. At the front position,
the amount increased drastically. However, the increase was
considerably less prominent towards the back position. A
similar tendency is also evident in the DRIFT spectra, which
show much less intense surface nitrite and nitrate bands
towards the back position. Remarkably, 90% of the NOx
remained stored at the end of the lean period, but the
majority of the NOx was stored at the front of the catalyst bed
(by barium oxide).
Nijhuis et al. investigated a Cr/Al2O3 propane dehydro-
genation catalyst during successive dehydrogenation–regen-
eration cycles using a combination of UV/Vis diffuse reflec-
tance spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy.[27] The exper-
imental setup is shown in Figure 9a. A reactor tube with
optical-grade quartz windows was placed vertically in the
center of a long tubular oven block that has a horizontal hole
directed at the catalyst bed for 1D Raman measurements on
one side and a vertical slit in the furnace for 1D UV/Vis
measurements at different bed heights on the opposite side.
Figure 9b shows the catalytic performance during a 4 h
dehydrogenation cycle. There is a clear trend in the catalytic
conversion over time. The conversion increases during the
first 2 h and then slowly decreases. The high initial propane
conversion is caused by the combustion of some propane as it
reduces the catalyst. This effect also explains the lower initial
selectivity. Except for water and carbon dioxide from propane
combustion, the only coproducts that are observed in a
significant amount are ethene and methane. The remainder of
the 20% unselectively converted propane must therefore end
up as coke. More direct evidence on the amount and type of
coke formation could be obtained with UV/Vis and Raman
spectroscopy in the reactor bed (Figure 9c–e). Figure 9c
shows the UV/Vis/NIR absorbance measured at 1000 nm,
where no specific absorption bands are present, at four
different bed heights. This absorbance was used to monitor
the darkening of the sample during propane dehydrogen-
ation. For Raman spectroscopy, the intensities of the two
main coke bands at 1577 and 1320 cm1 in the middle of the
reactor bed are shown (Figure 9d). The different coke
formation rates at the different bed heights in Figure 9c
clearly show that coke is primarily produced at the end of the
reactor bed, indicating that it is formed primarily in a
secondary reaction from the product propene. Figure 9d
shows that initially the coke band at 1320 cm1 is more
intense. As the experiment proceeds, this band becomes less
intense compared to that at 1577 cm1. This relative shift is
consistent with the gradual growth of a graphitic-type coke
layer on the catalyst over time. Combining the information
from Figure 9b,c, it is apparent that during the first 2 h of
dehydrogenation coke forms slowly on the catalyst, while at
the same time the catalytic activity increases. Considering that
the catalyst was already reduced and that the catalyst is not
reduced further than Cr3+, the most probable explanation for
the activity increase is that coke formation is beneficial for
catalytic activity. After 2 h of reaction, the visible amount of
coke on the catalyst increases, while at the same time the
conversion begins to drop. It should be noted that although
after 2 h the rate at which the UV/Vis absorbance of the
sample increases becomes higher, this does not necessarily
Figure 8. a) Schematic illustration of the in situ IR/Raman spectroscopy reaction cell for space- and time-resolved experiments. b) NOx
concentration as a function of time for lean and rich reaction conditions. c–e) 2D plots of the time-resolved DRIFT spectra during NSR at the
front, middle, and back of the catalyst bed. f–h) 2D plots of the time-resolved Raman spectra during NSR at the front, middle, and back of the
catalyst bed. Reproduced from reference [26].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4919
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
mean that the actual coke formation rate also increases. As
the selectivity of the dehydrogenation reaction does not
change, the data imply that neither more propane nor more
propene is converted into coke. The increase in absorbance
can be best explained by the coke patches increasing in size
and starting to connect and cover the entire catalyst surface,
effectively blocking the scattering and reflection of light. At
the same time, as coke starts to cover the chromium oxide, the
catalyst becomes less accessible, and its activity drops. Since
this front of complete coke coverage of the catalyst starts at
the exit of the reactor and then moves slowly forward towards
the entrance, the overall conversion drops slowly.
A final example originates from Morschl et al., who
imaged catalytic reactions at the Pt/electrolyte interface in an
electrochemical cell using attenuated total reflection infrared
spectroscopy (ATR-IR) in combination with a focal plane
array detector.[28] This method allows collection of in situ
microscopic images of the catalyst material and its adsorbates.
More specifically, the authors investigated the electrooxida-
tion of CO over polycrystalline platinum. Figure 10 shows 2D
plots of the integrated CO peak intensities versus space for
different preset currents. Red indicates a high CO coverage,
whereas blue indicates a low one. For applied currents up to
1.3 mA, the CO peak intensities exhibit only slight deviations
from those of the surface with maximum CO coverage. Thus,
this region of the electrode is still completely covered by CO.
When the applied current is further gradually increased to
Figure 9. a) Schematic illustration of the in situ UV/Vis/NIR/Raman setup for measuring space- and time-resolved spectra of a Cr/Al2O3 propane
dehydrogenation catalyst in a fixed-bed reactor. b) Selectivity and conversion during a single propane dehydrogenation cycle at 5508C. c) UV/Vis/
NIR trends of catalyst absorbance at 1000 nm as a function of reaction time showing the coke formation at different bed heights in the reactor
bed (1=top, 4=bottom; see (a)). d) Raman intensities of bands of two predominant coke species as a function of reaction time. Reproduced
from reference [27], copyright Elsevier Science B.V., 2004.
Figure 10. 2D plots of the integrated CO peak intensities versus space
for different preset currents for polycrystalline Pt at the Pt/electrolyte
interface during the electrooxidation of CO as measured with ATR-IR
spectroscopy in combination with a focal plane array detector: a) 0.3,
b) 1.4, c) 1.5, d) 1.7, e) 1.75, and f) 1.8 mA. Red colors indicate a high
CO coverage; blue colors indicate low CO coverage. Reproduced from
reference [28], copyright American Chemical Society, 2008.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4920
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
1.8 mA, the probed area shows two different regions: one in
which the integrated intensity is still unchanged from the
completely covered surface and one in which no CO peaks are
detected (the region is almost free of CO). The higher the set
current, the larger the region that is practically free of
adsorbed CO. These regions can be correlated to activity: an
inactive, CO-covered region and an active, CO-depleted
region.
2.2. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of Millimeter-Sized
Catalyst Bodies
2.2.1. Tuning the Formation and Disintegration of Keggin-Type
Co–Mo Complexes Inside Al2O3-Based Catalyst Bodies
During Impregnation by a Combination of Raman and
UV/Vis Microscopy
By making use of a combination of Raman and UV/Vis
microscopy Bergwerff et al. monitored the disintegration and
formation of [H2PMo11CoO40]5 complexes inside the pores of
Al2O3
catalyst
bodies.[29]
The
experimental
approach
(Figure 11) consists of taking one or more catalyst bodies
from the synthesis vessel at different times during catalyst
impregnation. This step is followed by cleavage of the catalyst
bodies perpendicular to their z (long) axis. Cross-section
scans yield 1D plots of spectra at different positions inside the
individual bisected catalyst bodies. The recording of such
linescans with Raman spectroscopy was initially proposed by
Mang et al.[30] and fully exploited by Bergwerff et al.[31] The
method was later extended by Van de Water et al.[32] and
Espinosa Alonso et al.[33] for recording 1D linescans with UV/
Vis and IR microscopy.
When the experimental approach in Figure 11 was applied
to the impregnation of an aqueous [H2PMo11CoO40]5 solu-
tion onto Al2O3 catalyst bodies, Raman and UV/Vis spectra
were obtained at different positions inside the extrudates
after 15 and 180 min of impregnation.[29] The space- and time-
resolved Raman and UV/Vis spectra are shown in Figure 12.
At 15 min after the start of impregnation, the presence of the
[H2PMo11CoO40]5 complex inside the Al2O3 pores, as evi-
denced by the characteristic Raman band at 971 cm1, is
observed only in the outer shell of the bodies (Figure 12b).
Closer to the center of the alumina bodies, Mo is present as a
[HxMo7O24](6x) species, as can be concluded from the
position of the main MoO stretching vibration at 947 cm1.
However, near the core of the catalyst body, the absence of
any MoO vibration peak indicates that no Mo6+ complexes
are present. These Raman microscopy observations are in full
agreement with those from UV/Vis microscopy recorded at
the same points of the bisected pellet 15 min after the start of
impregnation (Figure 12a). Indeed, a clear shoulder is
observed at 17600 cm1, and the onset of the O!Mo6+
charge-transfer absorption band is shifted into the visible
region of the spectrum. This finding confirms the presence of
the [H2PMo11CoO40]5 complex in the outer shell of the
support bodies after 15 min. In contrast, closer to the core of
the pellets all Co2+ seems to be present as [Co(H2O)6]2+, and
the O!Mo6+ charge-transfer absorption band is absent, thus
confirming the Mo concentration gradient observed in the
Raman microscopy measurements. At 180 min after the start
of
impregnation,
a
homogeneous
distribution
of
the
[HxMo7O24](6x) complex is observed throughout the catalyst
bodies. The intensity of the 947 cm1 Raman peak relative to
that of the NO3
 internal standard is identical for all positions
inside the Al2O3 bodies (Figure 12d). This result is in line with
Figure 11. Layout of spatially resolved measurements on catalyst
bodies. An individual pellet is bisected or sliced after impregnation,
drying, or calcination. 1D spectra are then measured with Raman, IR,
or UV/Vis microscopy. The slicing is performed at specific times x
during the impregnation process. Reproduced from reference [29].
Figure 12. Space- and time-resolved UV/Vis (a, c) and Raman (b, d)
spectra recorded for a bisected Al2O3 catalyst body after 15 (a, b) and
180 (c, d) min of impregnation with an aqueous solution containing
[H2PMo11CoO40]5. The images show the catalyst bodies, and the red
dots indicate the positions at which spectra were recorded. Repro-
duced from reference [29].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4921
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
the observation of the O!Mo6+ charge-transfer absorption
band at all positions along the cross-section (Figure 12c). A
homogeneous distribution of the [Co(H2O)6]2+ ion is also
obtained, as the intensity of the Co2+ d–d transition at
19300 cm1 is the same for all positions along the cross-
section of the catalyst bodies.
The observations described above can be rationalized as
follows. Phosphate is known to react with the Al2O3 surface in
acidic environments to form a surface AlPO4 phase. In this
way, phosphate is withdrawn from the solution inside the
Al2O3 pores. Hence a decreasing phosphate gradient can be
expected towards the center of the catalyst body. As the
impregnation solution containing [H2PMo11CoO40]5 com-
plexes penetrates the alumina pellets, reaction of phosphate
with the Al2O3 surface results in a lower phosphate concen-
tration in the solution inside the pores of the support body. As
a
consequence,
[HxMo7O24](6x)
and
[Co(H2O)6]2+
are
formed. These species make their way toward the core of
the bodies, each at its own rate. Experimental evidence for the
surface reaction between Al2O3 and phosphate was found by
Lysova et al.[34] using 31P MRI to monitor the dynamics of the
impregnation of an Al2O3 catalyst body in the presence of a
H3PO4 solution. Comparison of the 1H images of water and
the 31P images of phosphate revealed the strong interaction
(and therefore slow transport) of the latter with the Al2O3
support. The 2D 31P MRI images demonstrate the distribution
of phosphate in the alumina pellets (Figure 13). The images in
Figure 13a,b reflect the spatial distribution of the phosphate
in solution only. It is expected that phosphate adsorbed on the
walls of the alumina pores does not contribute significantly to
the observed images. The correlation of the spatial distribu-
tions of dissolved and adsorbed phosphate has been estab-
lished as well. To do so, the impregnation process was
interrupted about 100 min after its initiation. The selected
pellet was dried and a 2D 31P MRI image of the phosphate in
the solid phase was measured. The result (Figure 13c)
indicates an egg-shell distribution of phosphate. In another
experiment, the impregnation process was carried out to
completion. The pellet was dried and imaged 18.5 h after
starting the process. As can be seen from Figure 13d, the
liquid-phase and solid-phase distributions of phosphate do
correlate with those during impregnation (Figure 13b), thus
validating the applicability of MRI for dynamic impregnation
studies. This study shows that the amount of free phosphate is
a crucial factor in the formation of specific Co–Mo complexes
within the pores of the alumina catalyst bodies. With this
knowledge in mind, it was possible to form [H2PMo11CoO40]5
complexes inside Al2O3 catalyst bodies by increasing the
amount of free phosphate in the initial impregnation solu-
tion.[29] In this manner, the reaction of free phosphate with the
support results in a lower phosphate concentration inside the
pores, thereby creating optimal conditions for the formation
of the [H2PMo11CoO40]5 complex.
2.2.2. Altering the Macrodistribution and Speciation of Co
Complexes within Al2O3-Containing Catalyst Bodies during
Impregnation, Drying, and Calcination as Evidenced by a
Combination of Magnetic Resonance Imaging and UV/Vis
Microscopy
Impregnation solutions used in industrial catalyst prepa-
ration processes usually contain metal precursor salts and
organic complexing agents such as citrate. As a consequence,
different metal chelate complexes can be formed in the
impregnation solution as a function of pH value and metal-
ion concentration. Since it is known that pH value gradients
may occur inside catalyst bodies after impregnation, different
interactions between the metal complexes and the support
surface are expected. These differences may lead to different
transport rates of these compounds through the support
bodies. Bergwerff et al. have shown how the transport
phenomena and related macrodistribution of different types
of Co2+ complexes inside Co/Al2O3 catalyst bodies can be
visualized by a combination of MRI and UV/Vis micro-
scopy.[35,36] While UV/Vis microscopy provided molecular
information on the Co2+ complexes after bisecting catalyst
bodies at specific times during impregnation, the macro-
distribution of Co2+ complexes inside the catalyst bodies can
be determined by MRI. Indeed, MRI can be used indirectly to
image paramagnetic species, such as Co2+ complexes, as their
unpaired electrons induce a decrease in the relaxation time of
the 1H nuclei. Using a specific pulse sequence it is possible to
distinguish between perturbed and unperturbed 1H nuclei of
the impregnated solution occluded in the catalyst-body pores.
In other words, the proportion of paramagnetic nuclei can be
monitored in space and time within a catalyst body by
monitoring the quenching of the 1H MRI signal.[35–37]
The proof of principle is illustrated in Figure 14 for the
impregnation of an Al2O3 catalyst body with a 0.2m Co(NO3)2
solution. Figure 14a shows a set of 2D 1H images of an Al2O3
Figure 13. 2D 31P MRI images demonstrating the distribution of
phosphate in Al2O3 catalyst bodies. a,b) Distribution of phosphate in
the liquid phase during the impregnation of the catalyst body with an
aqueous solution of H3PO4 approximately 100 min (a) and 18.5 h (b)
after starting the impregnation process. c,d) Distribution of phosphate
in the solid phase after terminating the impregnation after approx-
imately 100 min (c) and 18.5 h (d) and drying the catalyst bodies.
Lighter shades of gray correspond to higher signal intensity. Repro-
duced from reference [18], copyright Elsevier, 2007.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4922
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
catalyst body at different times after impregnation, while
Figure 14b shows a quantitative Co2+-ion distribution plot
derived from the 2D images. It can be concluded that the
transport of Co2+ ions after pore-volume impregnation takes
place in two distinct steps. In a first step, Co2+ complexes are
transported into the catalyst body as they travel with the
capillary flow of the water solvent. Adsorption of Co2+
complexes on the Al2O3 surface takes place as coordinating
water molecules are exchanged for support oxygen atoms, and
a Co2+ concentration gradient is instantly established after
impregnation. Since impregnation was carried out without
excess solution, the total amount of Co2+ inside the catalyst
body remained constant as a function of time after impreg-
nation. Therefore, the Co2+ concentration near the outer
surface of the catalyst body was initially higher than 0.2m. The
concentration gradient over the catalyst body resulted in
diffusion of Co2+ complexes towards the center. The Co2+
front travels into the catalyst body, and after 4 h a homoge-
neous distribution of the metal complexes and an average
Co2+ concentration of 0.2m were observed.
In a subsequent characterization study, the influence of
citrate on the mobility and chemical nature of Co2+ complexes
within Al2O3 catalyst bodies was investigated. As an example,
the impregnation with an aqueous cobalt citrate solution at
pH 5 for a cobalt/citrate ratio of 1:1 will be discussed.
Figure 15a shows the 2D 1H MRI image obtained from the
catalyst bodies after 15 h of impregnation. A sharp ring of low
1H NMR signal intensity near the external surface of the
catalyst bodies is formed immediately after impregnation.
Since the red regions of the MRI image correspond to a high
concentration of Co2+ complexes (blue regions indicate low
Co2+ concentrations), the 2D MRI image clearly shows
a sharp egg-shell distribution of Co2+ complexes. UV/
Vis spectra recorded on the corresponding bisected
catalyst body show an absorption band located at
around 530 nm, which is due to Co2+ d–d transitions.
This band is only clearly observed in the spectrum
recorded near the external surface of the catalyst body,
thus confirming the sharp egg-shell profile for this
catalyst body. By systematic variation of the cobalt/
citrate ratio and pH value of the impregnation solution,
the macrodistribution of Co2+ complexes in the impreg-
nated catalyst bodies could be varied from egg shell
through egg white and egg yolk to uniform.
Another illustrative characterization study illustrat-
ing the power of spatially resolved methods uses UV/
Vis microscopy to reveal the differences in macro-
distribution and speciation of Co2+ ions within Al2O3
catalyst bodies after impregnation, drying, and calcina-
tion when Co2+-containing aqueous and ethanol solu-
tions are used for impregnation.[38] Van de Water et al.
found that Co2+ ions tend to migrate more slowly
towards the center of the catalyst body in an ethanol
impregnation solution than in aqueous solution. UV/
Vis spectra of the dried samples confirmed that there
are still very few Co2+ ions in the center of the catalyst
body for the ethanol-impregnated sample. More inter-
estingly, however, the spectral changes observed for this
sample and the complex spectra could be explained in terms
of the formation of Co–Al hydrotalcite-like compounds,
which are known to be formed by Co2+-assisted alumina
dissolution. By comparison, the UV/Vis spectra of the
calcined sample impregnated in aqueous solution showed
strong absorption bands indicative of the formation of
supported Co3O4 nanoparticles. It could be deduced that the
Co3O4 nanoparticles are rather homogeneously distributed
Figure 14. a) 2D 1H MRI images of an Al2O3 catalyst body at different times
after impregnation with a 0.2m Co(NO3)2 solution. Blue: high 1H NMR signal
intensity (low Co2+ concentration); red: low 1H NMR signal intensity (high
Co2+ concentration). b) Quantitative Co2+-ion distribution plots along the
position in the catalyst body, derived from the 2D 1H MRI images.
Reproduced from reference [35].
Figure 15. a) 2D 1H MRI image of an Al2O3 catalyst body after 15 h of
impregnation with a 0.2m Co(NO3)2 solution containing 0.2m citrate
at pH 5. Blue: high 1H NMR signal (low Co2+ concentration); red: low
1H NMR signal (high Co2+ concentration). b) Corresponding 1D UV/
Vis spectra recorded on the bisected Al2O3 catalyst body. The locations
of the 1D measurement spots are indicated in the 2D 1H MRI image.
Reproduced from reference [36].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4923
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
over the whole catalyst body, as no major differences between
edge and center were detected. In contrast, the UV/Vis
spectra of the ethanol-impregnated catalyst body after
calcination were much more complex, and different regions
were identified. The edge of the cross-section of the bisected
catalyst body contained predominantly Co3O4, whereas in
other places CoAl2O4 was formed. The latter phase evolved
from the calcination of the Co–Al hydrotalcite compounds in
places where no oxidation of Co2+ occurred during drying.
2.2.3. Revealing the Formation of Anderson-Type Aluminum
Polymolybdate and MoO3 Crystallites during the
Preparation of Mo/Al2O3 Catalyst Bodies by a Combination
of Raman Microscopy and Tomographic Energy-Dispersive
Diffraction Imaging
Bergwerff et al. investigated the impregnation, drying,
and calcination of an Al2O3 catalyst body with a molybdenum
species.[39] Figure 16a shows a typical set of 1D Raman spectra
recorded on bisected 19 wt% Mo/Al2O3 catalyst bodies after
impregnation with an ammonium heptamolybdate (AHM)
solution at pH 6. Raman bands at 895 and 940 cm1 are
observed at almost all positions inside the catalyst bodies. The
presence of these two bands demonstrates the coexistence of
MoO4
2 and Mo7O24
6 anions inside the Al2O3 pores. Inter-
estingly, the Raman spectrum recorded on the outer Al2O3
surface exhibits intense bands at around 947, 899, 572, 355,
and 218 cm1, indicating the presence of [Al(OH)6Mo6O18]3
anions. After drying of the catalyst material, a white layer
could be seen at the edges of the catalyst body, which was also
visible in the corresponding scanning electron microscopy
(SEM) image of a bisected catalyst body (Figure 16b). The
Raman spectra of this bisected catalyst body (Figure 16c)
indicates that the crust on the outside of the dried catalyst
bodies consisted of (NH4)3[Al(OH)6Mo6O18], as evidenced by
the intense Raman bands at 947, 899, 563, and 355 cm1.
Similar Raman bands can also be observed in the lighter-color
ring observed by SEM. In contrast, Mo7O24
6 complexes were
present in the bulk of the sample, as indicated by the 940 cm1
Raman band. The [Al(OH)6Mo6O18]3 crust is formed by
ligand-promoted dissolution of the Al2O3 support, which
results in the complexation of Al3+ ions by the oxomolybdate
complexes under acidic conditions. The high Mo concentra-
tion at the outside of the catalyst bodies after impregnation
allows a chain reaction to occur. Al3+ ions are generated by
dissolution of the Al2O3 support and consumed in the
formation of [Al(OH)6Mo6O18]3. The low solubility of this
compound
leads
to
the
precipitation
of
(NH4)3[Al(OH)6Mo6O18]. The Al3+ concentration in the
solution is thus kept low, and increasing amounts of Al2O3
are dissolved as a layer of (NH4)3[Al(OH)6Mo6O18] is formed.
Inside the pores of the Al2O3 toward the inside of the catalyst
body, the pH of the solution increases owing to the buffering
action of the support, and MoO4
2 complexes rather than Al3+
ions are formed. This species is transformed into Mo7O24
6
during drying.
The egg-shell distribution in Mo/Al2O3 catalyst bodies can
be confirmed with TEDDI, a technique which has been
explored by Beale et al. for the spatially resolved character-
ization of catalyst bodies.[40] TEDDI is a noninvasive method
to probe individual volume elements within catalyst bodies
using a hard white X-ray beam (Figure 17a). The TEDDI
detector signal contains both the diffraction pattern and a
fluorescence peak from the defined volume element in the
catalyst body, as illustrated in Figure 17b for the calcination
of an individual Mo/Al2O3 catalyst body. By scanning over the
whole y–z area of the catalyst body, 2D maps can be obtained
from the MoKa1,2 fluorescence as well as from the (311) g-
Al2O3 and (210) MoO3 diffraction peaks. As an example,
Figure 17c,d shows a specific y–z MoKa1,2 2D fluorescence
map and a y–z MoO3 2D diffraction map, respectively. From
the latter image it can be seen that during calcination
crystalline MoO3 is formed from the (NH4)3[Al(OH)6Mo6O18]
complexes and that these MoO3 crystallites adopt an egg-shell
distribution within the catalyst body. At the top and the
bottom of the sample there are some brighter parts of the Mo
Figure 16. a) 1D Raman spectra of a bisected Al2O3 catalyst body
impregnated with an aqueous solution containing 1.8m ammonium
heptamolybdate (AHM) at pH 6 after 1 h of impregnation. b) SEM
image of a bisected Al2O3 catalyst body prepared in the same manner
as for (a). c) 1D Raman spectra recorded at different positions of a
bisected Al2O3 catalyst body impregnated with an aqueous solution
containing 1.8m AHM at pH 6 but now measured after drying at
1208C. Measurement positions are similar to the points labeled 1–3 in
(b). d) 1D Raman spectra of same sample as in (c) but now measured
after calcination at 5008C. Measurement positions are similar to the
points labeled 1–3 in (b). Reproduced from reference [39], copyright
Elsevier Science B.V., 2006.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4924
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
corona, which are due to the shorter path length for the
escaping fluorescence signal from the sample. This egg-shell
distribution is confirmed by the 1D Raman spectra shown in
Figure 16d. The Raman spectra originating from the edges of
the catalyst bodies reveal the presence of bands at around 995,
819, 667, 378, 337, 290, and 242 cm1, which can be assigned to
MoO3. In other areas of the catalyst bodies amorphous MoOx
was detected.
2.3. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of Micrometer-Sized
Zeolite Crystals
2.3.1. Insight into Diffusion Phenomena, Surface and Internal
Transport Resistance, and Pore Architecture within Zeolites
by Monitoring the Concentration of Molecules with
Interference and Confocal Fluorescence Microscopy
Knowledge of the transport of molecules through zeolite
materials and the relationship between pore structure and
reactivity at the subcrystal level are important for the further
development and application of such materials as heteroge-
neous catalysts. Different macroscopic techniques have been
used to determine the uptake and release of guest molecules
within zeolites. Unfortunately, they do not provide any
information on the temporal evolution of internal concen-
tration profiles. A powerful method, explored Krger and co-
workers,[41–44] to reveal space- and time-resolved details, is
interference microscopy. This technique is based on the
principle that the optical density of an individual zeolite
crystallite depends on the concentration and nature of the
guest molecules. As a consequence, the phase shift between
two light beams, one of which passes through the zeolite
crystal and the other through the surrounding atmosphere, is
a measure of the average guest concentration along the
direction of the light beam through the crystal. The principle
of interference microscopy is schematically depicted in
Figure 18a–c. Concentration profiles at different times can
then be obtained by analyzing the interference patterns of the
two beams. Figure 18e–g shows the application of interfer-
ence microscopy to the adsorption and desorption of meth-
anol on a ferrierite crystal (Figure 18d).[41] Almost immedi-
ately after the start of the adsorption experiment, a concen-
tration profile associated with the roof-like part of the
ferrierite crystal is established. During desorption of meth-
anol this part of the profile disappears rapidly. Furthermore,
the concentration gradients, which indicate the direction of
mass transport into the crystal, are observed exclusively in the
y direction of the central part of the crystal. These observa-
tions can be explained by the particular features of the
channels that run along the z direction of the crystal. These
channels are formed by 10-rings. As the channels that run
along the y direction of the ferrierite crystal are composed of
smaller 8-rings, intracrystalline mass transfer is expected to
proceed much faster in the z direction. Thus, the roof-like part
Figure 17. a) Layout of the experimental procedure used for measuring time- and space-resolved fluorescence and diffraction patterns from a
specific volume within a catalyst body using tomographic energy-dispersive diffraction imaging (TEDDI). b) Detector signal from a Mo/Al2O3
catalyst body after calcination at 5008C. c) Typical y–z map of the MoKa1,2 fluorescence signals from a Mo/Al2O3 catalyst body after drying at
1208C. d) Typical y–z diffraction map (based on the (210) reflection of MoO3 crystals) from the Mo/Al2O3 catalyst body after calcination at 5008C.
Reproduced from reference [40].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4925
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
of the crystal is occupied by methanol molecules immediately
after the start of the adsorption experiment and is emptied
immediately after the start of the desorption experiment.
Another interesting feature of the concentration profiles of
Figure 18 is that there are no
concentration gradients in the z
direction in the central parallele-
piped part of the ferrierite crystal.
Apparently, the channels along
the z direction are blocked in
this part of the crystal, whereas
they are wide open in the roof-
like part of the crystal. As a
consequence, any mass transfer
in the central part of the crystal
can only occur in the y direction
along the 8-ring channels. This
pore blocking pattern means that
mass transfer in the main part of
the crystal occurs only in the y
direction,
even
through
the
molecular
mobility
is
much
larger in the z direction because
of the larger pore system. In other
words, direct evidence is obtained
for transport resistance on the
external surface of ferrierite crys-
tals, leading to distinct guest-mol-
ecule profiles in the inner part of
the porous solid.
The same approach was used
by Tzoulaki et al. to investigate
the adsorption and desorption of
isobutane in coffin-shaped MFI-
zeolite-type crystals.[42] Figure 19
shows
transient
concentration
profiles observed during isobutane uptake and release.
Figure 19a illustrates the distribution of the isobutane con-
centration within the crystal after 10 s of isobutane adsorp-
tion, while Figure 19b presents profiles of the concentration
Figure 18. Principle of interference microscopy applied to the adsorption of methanol as guest molecule onto a ferrierite crystal: a) Two light
beams, one passing through the crystal and one through the surrounding atmosphere. b) Interference microscope. c) Interference pattern arising
from the two beams passing through media with different optical properties. d) Shape and pore structure of the ferrierite crystal. e) Concentration
profiles of methanol in the z direction at y=25 mm; f) 2D concentration profiles of methanol in the y and z directions. g) Concentration profiles of
methanol in the y direction at the center of the crystal (z=120 mm) and at two locations near the edges. Reproduced from reference [41].
Figure 19. Time-dependent concentration profiles of isobutane as a guest molecule on a silicalite-1
crystal: a) 2D concentration profile 10 s after the onset of isobutane adsorption. b) Evolution of the
concentration profile of isobutane along the x axis at z=10 mm during uptake. c) Silicalite-1 crystal
indicating the positions z of the concentration profiles in (d). d) Evolution of the concentration profiles
of isobutane along the x axis during release at different z values. Reproduced from reference [42].
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4926
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
integrals along the crystal x direction. Finally, Figure 19d
provides a comparison of the profiles during desorption along
the x axis during release at different z values. It is clear that
the isobutane uptake is essentially independent of the z
position in the zeolite crystal. More importantly, in both the
adsorption and desorption experiments, the boundary con-
centrations are found to assume the equilibrium values
instantaneously. This result is different from that obtained
for ferrierite and indicates that there is no additional trans-
port resistance or surface barrier on the outer crystal surface.
In the case of MFI-type crystallites, the observed surface
diffusion barriers are probably amorphous silica layers on the
external surface of the crystals. Therefore, prior to calcination
and use, the crystallites were exposed to a dilute NaOH
solution. During this alkaline treatment, thin amorphous
silica layers easily dissolve, yielding seemingly surface-bar-
rier-free crystallites. However, the work of Kortunov et al.
illustrated that surface barriers could exist in MFI-type
crystals.[43] By comparing the adsorption and desorption
behavior of isobutane for two different ZSM-5 crystals, only
one of which was etched, crystal surface defects were found to
either increase or decrease the rate of adsorption and
desorption. The former effect could be associated with
adsorption and desorption through cracks in the crystal
surface, while the latter is due to blockage or structural
change of the external crystal surface, leading to surface
transport barriers. Furthermore, MFI-type crystals may con-
tain intracrystalline diffusion barriers as well as external
surface barriers. Indeed, for isobutane adsorption and
desorption experiments complemented with Monte Carlo
simulations, Geier et al. have been able to demonstrate that
the internal intergrowth sections of MFI-type crystals do not
act as molecular highways to the outer crystal surface.[44]
Instead, the measured and simulated time-dependent isobu-
tane profiles provided strong evidence for the adsorption and
desorption of isobutane through the outer crystal surface,
while the internal surfaces serve only as mild surface barriers,
retarding the transport of isobutane.
Further evidence for the compartmentalization of coffin-
shaped ZSM-5 crystals and their related internal surface
barriers was obtained by Roeffaers et al. using confocal
fluorescence microscopy.[45,46] The liquid-phase acid-catalyzed
self-condensation of furfuryl alcohol in dioxane was used as a
reporter reaction for imaging the catalytic activity of ZSM-5
crystals (Scheme 1). This reaction requires not only diffusion
but also the availability of Brønsted acid sites. Two furfuryl
alcohol
molecules
initially
produce
a
colorless
bis-
(furfuryl)methyl group. This molecule easily transfers a
hydride ion to a primary carbenium ion formed from another
molecule of furfuryl alcohol. Visible absorption then arises
from the resonance-stabilized bis(furyl) carbenium ion (com-
pound A, Scheme 1) or its conjugated analogue (compound
B, Scheme 1) formed by proton loss. Excitation with visible
light leads to fluorescence of compounds A and B and their
related structures. The degree of oligomerization and con-
jugation may increase, thus shifting the absorption and
emission wavelengths of the formed chromophores towards
the red. Using confocal fluorescence microscopy, it was
possible to locate in 3D the emissive reaction products formed
within the zeolite crystals. Some results are shown in
Figure 20a–c, which clearly indicates that product formation
is space- and time-dependent. For a ZSM-5 crystal lying on
the (010) face, the optical path runs along the (100) face, and
the accumulated fluorescence on this face causes a bright rim
after 10 min of reaction (Figure 20a). The spatial resolution
of confocal fluorescence microscopy is sufficiently high to
monitor in detail the fluorescence intensity at any point in the
ZSM-5 crystal. By depth profiling through the crystal or
measuring line scans at different positions parallel to the (100)
plane, it is possible to detect the relative intensity of the
fluorescent reaction products. Clearly, a rim of fluorescent
molecules is formed in the ZSM-5 crystals. After 16 h, the
fluorescence also spreads along the long axis of the crystal
into the crystal edges, as illustrated by the longitudinal scans
in Figure 20b. It seems that any zone in the crystal can be
reached by the furfuryl alcohol molecules. Interestingly, after
50 days of catalytic reaction, a reversed situation is observed,
and the tip segments emit the most intense fluorescence. It
has been argued that at such long reaction times the
microporous zeolite catalysts tend to be deactivated by pore
plugging. Clearly, the desorption of product molecules from
the edge segments is slow and gives rise to extensive
consecutive reactions, such as oligomerization. This result is
in line with internal intergrowth interface boundaries, which
function as diffusion barriers that retard fast product diffu-
sion.
The hydrothermal synthesis of zeolites usually requires
the use of template molecules to ensure their long-range
order structure; it is possible to remove these molecules by
calcination. The thermal decomposition of template mole-
cules leads to the formation of light-absorbing and light-
emitting species. The latter, most probably conjugated
aromatic compounds formed from the decomposition of
charged amines, can be visualized in space and time using
confocal fluorescence microscopy. As the accessibility of the
porous network in the subunits varies owing to the presence
of internal transport barriers for molecular diffusion, the
individual building blocks of large zeolite crystals can be
Scheme 1. Acid-catalyzed self-condensation reaction of furfuryl alcohol.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4927
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
visualized by monitoring the template removal process in
time. This approach was developed by Karwacki et al. and
used to reveal the intergrowth structure and related diffusion
boundaries
for
the
structure
types
CHA (SAPO-34), AFI (SAPO-5 and
CrAPO-5), and MFI (ZSM-5).[47] For
ZSM-5 crystals a gradual hour-glass
pattern could be revealed by perform-
ing depth scanning through the zeolite
crystal; different subunits could also be
discerned, the number and shape of
which depended on the morphology of
the zeolite crystal.
Seebacher et al. used 4-(4-diethyl-
aminostyryl)-1-methylpyridinium
iodide and oxazine-1 (Scheme 2) as
probe molecules for studying penetra-
tion into the porous networks of large
ZSM-5
and
AlPO4-5
molecular
sieves.[48] Before calcination of the
molecular sieves and after immersion
into the dye solution, no fluorescence
could be detected within the solids by
confocal fluorescence microscopy. This
result is no surprise, as the dye mole-
cules are too big to enter the micropore
systems of these two molecular sieves.
Instead, for the calcined materials both
dyes can diffuse into the inner part of
the crystals. In all cases, a rather complex and inhomogeneous
band structure of fluorescence along the crystal length could
be observed, which was explained by the authors in terms of
the formation of internal defects in the zeolite structure. The
same
4-(4-diethylaminostyryl)-1-methylpyridinium
iodide
molecule was used by Roeffaers et al. to study a series of
large ZSM-5 crystals to gain detailed insight into the inter-
growth structures of these zeolites.[49] The adsorption of this
probe molecule has been linked to the visualization of straight
pores within the ZSM-5 structure, and for properly treated
crystals it is argued that there are no mesopores intruding into
the crystallites. As shown by Seebacher et al.,[48] mesopores
could
host these 4-(4-diethylaminostyryl)-1-methylpyridi-
nium iodide molecules.
2.3.2. Pore Alignment, Shape Selectivity, and Reactivity Patterns
within Zeolite Crystals as Probed with a Combination of
UV/Vis, Fluorescence, and Infrared Microscopy
Kox et al.[50] and Stavitski et al.[51,52] investigated large
coffin-shaped ZSM-5 crystals utilizing a combination of three
in situ microscopic techniques: UV/Vis, fluorescence, and IR.
Acid-catalyzed styrene oligomerization was chosen as a probe
reaction for assessing the Brønsted acidity in a space- and
time-resolved manner (Scheme 3). The cationic intermediates
in the styrene oligomerization reaction, which exhibit strong
optical, vibrational, and fluorescence spectra upon photo-
excitation, can act as reporter molecules for catalytic activity.
H-ZSM-5 crystals exposed to 4-methoxystyrene were heated
in the in situ cell, and microscopy images as well as optical
spectra were recorded. The crystals turn purple upon heating;
however, closer examination reveals that the edges and the
main body of the crystal exhibit different colors (Figure 21a).
Figure 20. Confocal fluorescence imaging of the condensation of furfuryl alcohol catalyzed by an individual
H-ZSM-5 zeolite crystal after a) 10 min, b) 16 h, and c) 50 days of reaction, together with the correspond-
ing optical transmission images (grayscale) for different cross-sections and depth profiles throughout the
H-ZSM-5 crystal. Reproduced from reference [45].
Scheme 2. Molecular structures of a) 4-(4-diethylaminostyryl)-1-methyl-
pyridinium iodide, b) oxazine-1, c) terrylene diimide, d) 5-carboxyfluor-
escein diacetate, e) aminophenyl fluorescein, f) fluorescein, and
g) resorufin.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4928
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
As is apparent from the optical spectra in Figure 21b, two
bands at approximately 590 and 635 nm are present in both
parts of the crystal with different intensity ratios. In accord-
ance with the reaction pathway in Scheme 3, the absorption
band at 590 nm is due to a dimeric allylic carbocation, while
the band at 635 nm can be assigned to a trimeric carbocation.
It is evident that different parts of the crystal vary in their
catalytic behavior. To better understand the nonuniform
catalytic properties of the H-ZSM-5 crystal, deeper insight
into its microscopic structure is required. H-ZSM-5 has the
MFI crystalline structure with a pore system consisting of
intersecting elliptical 5.3  5.1 2 straight pores and 5.6 
5.3 2 zigzag pores. Large MFI crystals consist of different
intergrown single-crystalline subunits, which are rotated by
908 about the common crystallographic [001] axis (Fig-
ure 21c,d). Further experimental evidence for this inter-
growth structure could be obtained using a combination of
electron back-scatter diffraction (EBSD) and focused ion-
beam (FIB) milling experiments.[53] As the oligomerization
reaction is likely to occur within the zeolite channels, the
carbocations would be expected to be entrapped and aligned
within the pores. Such an alignment may be revealed using
optical absorption measurements with polarized light, as the
photoactive molecules absorb light polarized parallel to their
dipole moment vector. Microphotographs taken with unpo-
larized and polarized light (Figure 21a,e) show that the body
of the crystal (an upper surface of the smaller subunit)
remains translucent when the polarization is parallel to the
crystal long axis but is strongly colored when the polarizer is
directed otherwise. This finding directly implies that in this
region the carbocations are aligned with the straight channels.
At the edges of the crystal, the absorbance does not change
dramatically upon rotation of the polarizer (Figure 21e), thus
indicating that the preferred molecule orientation is collinear
with the incident light. The intergrowth structure suggests
that at the edge regions straight pores, which accommodate
the intermediate molecules, are opened directly to the outer
surface, while in the main body they run parallel to the surface
and are accessible through the sections of zigzag pores. On the
basis of this information it can be concluded that at the crystal
edges the carbocation dimer is trapped within the straight
pore near the surface, thus blocking further access of
monomers and suppressing the formation of higher oligomers.
In the crystal body, even after the dimer has been formed in
the straight channel, more monomer molecules can diffuse
through the sections of the adjacent zigzag pores.
In an extension of the studies of the H-ZSM-5/4-methoxy-
styrene system, the factors influencing catalytic activity and
selectivity were investigated using styrene derivatives bearing
different substituent groups.[51] To this end, a series of large H-
ZSM-5 crystals was loaded with different styrene derivatives.
After reaction, the zeolite crystals exhibited colors ranging
from yellow-brown through blue to pink-purple (Figure 22a).
In all cases that led to catalytic reactivity, a nonuniform
coloration was observed. Two factors account for the
observed differences. Firstly, very bulky heavily substituted
styrene molecules are not able to diffuse into the pores of the
zeolite, resulting in translucent zeolite crystals. Secondly, the
stability of the initial styrene carbocation determines the
reactivity within the pore channels. In the case of 4-
chlorostyrene, the position of the electron-withdrawing
Scheme 3. Acid-catalyzed oligomerization of styrene.
Figure 21. a) Optical microphotograph of a H-ZSM-5 crystal after
addition of 4-methoxystyrene, showing the different colors of the body
(blue) and the edges (purple). b) Spatially resolved optical absorption
spectra measured along the long axis of the crystal after reaction at
the edges (solid line) and the center (dotted line); c,d) Three-dimen-
sional model of the intergrowth structure of an individual H-ZSM-5
crystal. e) Microphotographs of H-ZSM-5 exposed to 4-methoxystyrene
and measured with polarized light (polarization is indicated by
arrows). f) Angular dependence of the optical absorption at 590 nm in
the body (squares) and at the edges (triangles) of the crystal.
Reproduced from reference [50].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4929
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
halogen atom on the aromatic ring destabilizes the carbocat-
ion. In contrast, when the chlorine atom is placed at the meta-
position, it destabilizes the initial styrene carbocation, and no
reactivity is detected for 3-chlorostyrene. The nonuniform
coloration arising from the intensity variations of different
absorption bands is illustrated in Figure 22b. For all styrene
molecules investigated, one absorption band (assigned to the
dimeric carbocations) dominates the edge spectra, while in
the center other bands at longer wavelength appear, attrib-
uted to species undergoing further oligomerization. To gain
more insight into the oligomerization kinetics for each of the
styrene compounds, Stavitski et al. performed time-resolved
experiments.[51] From these data, reaction rate constants for
the different reactive styrene compounds were obtained by
fitting kinetic profiles with a second-order rate equation
(Figure 22c). These reaction rate constants have been ration-
alized in terms of the stabilization of the initial styrene
carbocation. The diffusion properties of the styrene molecules
also influence the catalytic activity, as can be seen from the
comparison of the reactivity of 4-methoxystyrene and 4-
ethoxystyrene. The 3D volume reconstructions of the con-
focal fluorescence measurements for 4-methoxystyrene and
4-ethoxystyrene (Figure 22d) show that in the former case the
oligomerization reaction occurs in nearly the entire volume of
the crystal, while in the latter only a thin near-surface layer of
the zeolite crystal is affected. Clearly, internal surface
boundaries can be observed.
UV/Vis and fluorescence microscopy methods have been
very powerful in the spatially resolved visualization of
catalytic activity within zeolite crystals. However, extra
measures are required to unambiguously unravel the chem-
ical nature of the species formed during reaction. This could
be accomplished with IR microscopy using synchrotron
radiation.[52] H-ZSM-5 crystals were exposed to 4-fluorosty-
rene; corresponding IR spectra from a region in the center of
the crystal are given in Figure 23a. Two sharp features, at
1534 cm1 (with a shoulder at 1521 cm1) and 1510 cm1, are
visible in the spectrum. The broad bands (1600–1700 and
1000–1300 cm1) are attributed to the harmonics of the zeolite
framework. By comparing the IR spectrum with that of 4-
fluorostyrene (Figure 23a), the band at 1510 cm1 is found to
coincide with that of the reactant. When the spectra are
recorded in situ during the reaction (Figure 23b) at 1008C,
the intensity of the 4-fluorostyrene band decreases, while the
band near 1534 cm1 and corresponding to oligomeric styrene
species increases in intensity. As the synchrotron IR radiation
is intrinsically polarized, polarization experiments can be
performed. Figure 23c shows IR spectra recorded with light
polarized parallel and perpendicular to the long crystal axis.
The intensity of the 1534 cm1 band depends upon IR light
Figure 22. a) Optical microphotographs of the H-ZSM-5 crystals after styrene oligomerization with 14 different styrene derivatives (1: 4-methoxy-
styrene; 2: 4-ethoxystyrene; 3: 4-methylstyrene; 4: 4-bromostyrene; 5: 4-chlorostyrene; 6: 4-fluorostyrene; 7: b-methoxystyrene; 8: trans-b-
methylstyrene; 9: 3-chlorostyrene; 10: 2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorostyrene; 11: a-methylstyrene; 12: 3-trifluoromethylstyrene; 13: 3,4-dichlorostyrene; 14:
2,6-dichlorostyrene). b) Optical absorption spectra of the H-ZSM-5 crystals after reaction with 4-bromostyrene (4) and 4-chlorostyrene (5) at
1008C taken at the main body (black) and edges (red) of the crystal. The gray areas indicate the excitation wavelength range used in the
fluorescence microscopy experiments (510–560 nm). The green bar indicates the laser wavelength in the confocal fluorescence measurements
(561 nm). c) Time evolution of the optical absorption band assigned to the dimeric carbocation for 4-bromostyrene (4) and 4-chlorostyrene (5).
d) Confocal microscopic images of H-ZSM-5 zeolite crystals measured in the spectroscopic cell after oligomerization of 4-methoxystyrene (1) and
4-ethoxystyrene (2). Two cross-sections are shown, as indicated in the corresponding 3D model. Reproduced from reference [51].
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4930
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
polarization. The less significant intensity changes of the band
at 1510 cm1 can be explained by the smaller molecular
dimensions of the styrene monomer, which allow for less strict
molecular alignment in the pores. To confirm the assignment
of the IR band at 1534 cm1, geometry optimizations and
vibrational frequency calculations for the reagent and possi-
ble products were performed within the framework of density
functional theory (DFT). The calculated vibrational spectrum
of the 1,3-bis(4-fluorophenyl)-2-buten-1-ylium cation showed
excellent agreement with experiment. Furthermore, the
distribution of this reaction product could be mapped over
the crystal by scanning the individual crystal under the IR
microscope (Figure 23 f).
Kox et al.[54] extended this combined in situ microscopic
approach to investigate the effect of mesoporosity in H-ZSM-
5 zeolite crystals on their catalytic performance. Two samples
were investigated: one contained pristine H-ZSM-5 crystals
(Figure 24a, denoted microporous), whereas the other had
undergone an alkaline treatment, resulting in selective
removal of silicon from the framework and formation of
mesopores (Figure 24b, denoted mesoporous). Confocal
fluorescence measurements during the template removal
process, as discussed above, allow visualization of the inter-
growth structure of these boat-shaped ZSM-5 crystals and
show three main building blocks (Figure 24c–e). Comparison
of the results for the parent and alkaline-treated zeolite
crystals after addition of 4-methoxy- or 4-fluorostyrene and
heat treatment at 1008C show that microporous crystals are
most colored in the upper lid, whereas the mesoporous
crystals color predominantly at the outer parts of the crystal
(Figure 24 f,g). In the mesoporous crystals, the localized
attack of the base removes the upper part of the zeolite
crystal and therefore facilitates mass transport inside the
zeolite volume. In the microporous crystals, the upper part
imposes a diffusion barrier, making diffusion of reactant
molecules inside the zeolite more difficult. As in the case of
coffin-shaped ZSM-5 crystals, optical absorption spectra of
the microporous crystals show the presence of two absorption
bands, at 595 and 650 nm for 4-methoxystyrene and at 560 and
600 nm for 4-chlorostyrene, which can be attributed to
dimeric and trimeric species, respectively. The longer-wave-
length absorption band in the microporous crystals vanishes
completely when the oligomerization is carried out over the
mesoporous zeolite, therefore showing that the formation of
trimeric or higher carbocations is limited (Figure 24h,i). In
the microporous crystals, dimeric product molecules, formed
on Brønsted acid sites in the micropores, may encounter other
acid sites, leading to trimeric or higher oligomers. Further-
more, the influence of different styrene compounds with
distinct reactivity on the fluorescence behavior was examined
in
a
space-resolved
manner,
showing
inhomogeneous
Brønsted acidity. Confocal fluorescence images recorded
after oligomerization with different styrene compounds
show clear differences in the fluorescence patterns (Fig-
ure 24j). The observed differences in coloration were ration-
alized by assuming that a gradient in Brønsted acidity is
present owing to distinct Si/Al ratios in different parts of the
crystals as a consequence of the desilication treatment. As a
Figure 23. a) IR spectra of an individual H-ZSM-5 crystal in contact with 4-fluorostyrene (top) and of liquid 4-fluorostyrene (bottom). b) IR spectra
(1440–1600 cm1) recorded during the 4-fluorostyrene oligomerization reaction as a function of reaction time. The spectra are background-
corrected. c) IR spectra taken with light polarized parallel to the long (kc) and short (ka) crystal axes. d) Experimental and calculated spectra for
4-fluorostyrene and the related dimeric reaction product. e) A fragment of the optical microphotograph of the ZSM-5 crystal after reaction with 4-
fluorostyrene. f) 2D intensity map of the IR band at 1534 cm1 across the H-ZSM-5 crystal. g) IR spectra recorded at the edge (solid line) and in
the body (dotted line) of the crystal, demonstrating differences in the intensity ratios of the bands. Reproduced from reference [52].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4931
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
result, very reactive styrene compounds such as 4-methoxy-
styrene and 4-bromostyrene show more evenly distributed
fluorescence patterns, as they will react on both strong and
weak Brønsted acid sites. On the contrary, styrene compounds
such as 4-chloro- and 4-fluorostyrene, with more electro-
negative substituents, will only react on very strong Brønsted
acid sites.
In a related study, Mores et al. used a combination of UV/
Vis and fluorescence microscopy to study the formation of
coke and its precursors in individual H-ZSM-5 and H-SAPO-
34 crystals in a space- and time-resolved manner.[55] For this
purpose, they used the methanol-to-olefin (MTO) process as
a probe reaction. In H-ZSM-5, coke is initially formed at the
crystal edge, and the coloration of the crystal intensifies with
reaction temperature. Temporal profiles of the UV/Vis bands
attributed to coke or its precursors reveal two distinct coke
systems: methylated aromatic systems and graphitic coke
compounds. The latter are responsible for blocking of the
pore openings. Confocal fluorescence microscopy confirmed
the preferred accumulation of coke at the crystal edges,
whereas with time on stream a coke front composed of
methylated aromatic systems moved towards the center of the
H-ZSM-5 crystal. The internal intergrowth boundaries in H-
ZSM-5 clearly hindered the facile transport of these more
bulky aromatic compounds. In the case of H-SAPO-34, fast
formation of methyl-substituted aromatic compounds at the
corners and edges of the crystal is observed. Confocal
fluorescence experiments confirmed the formation of fluo-
rescent coke compounds starting at the corners of the H-
SAPO-34 crystal; the majority of these species remain located
at the edges of the crystal, thereby slowing down further coke
formation in the crystal center.
2.4. Spatial Heterogeneities at the Level of Catalyst
Nanoparticles and Single Molecules
2.4.1. Tracking the Diffusion Pattern of Single Molecules with
Fluorescence Microscopy to Reveal Information on the
Porosity and Accessibility of a Catalyst Material
Zurner et al.[56] and Jung et al.[57] studied in great detail the
diffusion of single fluorescent dye molecules within a thin
mesoporous hexagonal silica film by a combination of high-
resolution transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence
microscopy using the highly fluorescent terrylene diimide
(TDI) dye molecule (Scheme 2). By careful overlaying of the
fluorescence and electron microscopic images, the porous
structure of the mesoporous silica film can be directly
correlated with the diffusion dynamics of the TDI dye
molecule. This method gave the first direct evidence that
the molecular diffusion pathway through a porous material
correlates with the pore orientation of the two-dimensional
hexagonal mesoporous material. To enable this analysis, a
special cell and an advanced synthesis procedure, including
the addition of polystyrene beads and gold colloids to the
mesoporous film, were developed.
Figure 25a shows a fluorescence image in which single
TDI dye molecules appear with a characteristic fluorescence
intensity profile. From the striped patterns it is possible to
compute both the position of the dye molecule and the
orientation of its transition dipole moment. It was concluded
that the transition dipole moments of all TDI dye molecules
have the same orientation over the whole image, which is
indicative of domains of highly structured mesoporous
material. Moreover, a sequence of consecutive images
showed that the molecules remain immobile when the
mesoporous film material was present in air (at 40% relative
Figure 24. a,b) SEM images of the microporous (a) and mesoporous (b) H-ZSM-5 crystals. c) Model of microporous H-ZSM-5 crystals.
d) Confocal fluorescence microphotographs taken from horizontal and vertical cross-sections as indicated in (c). e) Exploded representation of the
individual building blocks of the H-ZSM-5 crystals. f,g) Microphotographs of the micro- and mesoporous crystals after oligomerization with 4-
chlorostyrene (f) and 4-methoxystyrene (g). h,i) Optical absorption spectra for the microporous (black) and mesoporous (red) H-ZSM-5 crystals
after oligomerization with 4-chlorostyrene (h) and 4-methoxystyrene (i). j) Confocal fluorescence images of horizontal cross-sections of the
mesoporous crystals after oligomerization of 4-fluoro- (I), 4-chloro- (II), 4-ethoxy- (III), 4-bromo- (IV), and 4-methoxystyrene (V). Reproduced from
reference [54].
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4932
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
humidity). At higher humidity, the dye molecules diffuse very
slowly.
High mobility of the TDI molecules could be achieved
when the mesoporous film was exposed to a saturated
chloroform atmosphere. The three fluorescence images in
Figure 25b were taken after 0, 2, and 4 min. Figure 25c shows
the trajectory of the single TDI molecule highlighted in
Figure 25b. Strikingly, when the chloroform atmosphere was
replaced with air, the TDI molecules stopped moving. This
finding clearly demonstrates that the diffusion of TDI
molecules in the mesoporous film can be switched on and
off reversibly by simply changing the environment surround-
ing the pore system. Figure 25d shows the time evolution of
the angle of the transition dipole moment of the TDI
molecule. The angle was found to be nearly constant, and
this remarkable alignment can only be the result of a tight fit
of the TDI molecules within the mesoporous hexagonal
channels with a diameter of 2–3 nm. Since the mesopores are
still filled with template molecules, the effective volume
available for the TDI molecules is even more restricted.
Figure 25e,f schematically illustrates the host environment of
the TDI molecules in the presence of air and chloroform,
respectively. The immobility of the TDI molecules in air is
most probably caused by the interaction between TDI and the
template molecules. Interactions also occur between TDI and
active silanol groups and defect sites in the walls of the
mesoporous channels. In contrast, when chloroform (a good
solvent for TDI) is present, the small solvent molecules form
a lubricant-like phase inside the pores. The TDI molecules are
thus solvated within the mesopores, leading to rapid diffusion.
Following this experimental strategy, the trajectories of
TDI molecules were measured with high spatial accuracy in
various mesoporous environments, as shown schematically in
Figure 25g–k. More specifically, the diffusion of TDI mole-
cules could be tracked within linear or strongly curved
sections of the hexagonal film material (Figure 25g,h).
Figure 25j illustrates how the TDI molecules slow down
drastically or even bounce back at domain boundaries.
Figure 25i sketches the situation in which molecular transport
of the TDI molecule stops when it reaches a region of less
ordered material (dead ends), whereas Figure 25k illustrates
how a molecule can escape from its main channel through a
bypass route to another main channel. In other words, the
diffusion of a TDI molecule is an interrupted 1D random
walk, owing to the presence of heterogeneities in mesoporous
material and to the presence of adsorption sites in which the
TDI molecules can be occasionally trapped.
In a related study, Kirstein et al.[58] demonstrated that the
approach described above makes it possible to distinguish the
diffusion of TDI molecules on the external surface from the
diffusion of TDI molecules within the pore system. Diffusion
in a lamellar mesoporous material appeared to be much
slower than diffusion in a hexagonal mesoporous structure. It
was even possible to track the transport of TDI molecules
from one type of surroundings (the hexagonal channel
system) to another (the lamellar channel system). Further-
Figure 25. Orientation and diffusion of single terrylene diimide (TDI) molecules in highly structured domains of a mesoporous silica film:
a) Single TDI molecules embedded in parallel pores in air atmosphere. The fluorescence image shows oriented TDI molecules (striped patterns).
b) Sequence of fluorescence images showing linear diffusion of single TDI molecules in a chloroform atmosphere. c) The trajectory of the
individual TDI molecule marked with a white circle in (b). d) Calculated angular time trajectory of the same TDI molecule. e) Schematic depiction
of TDI molecules immobilized in the mesoporous material in air. f) View as in (e) but in chloroform atmosphere. The TDI molecules are solvated
(green stripe) and diffuse along the channels; their walk is occasionally interrupted by adsorption events. g) Straight segment within mesoporous
silica film. h) Curved segment. j) Domain boundary forcing molecules to turn back. i) Molecular travel stopped at less-ordered regions. k) Lateral
motion between neighboring channels. Reproduced from references [56,57], copyrights American Chemical Society, 2008, and Nature Publishing
Group, 2007.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4933
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
more, Lebold et al. observed that the mobility of TDI
molecules can increase or decrease depending on the func-
tional groups attached to the mesoporous silica wall.[59] The
authors explained their findings in terms of shielding of the
hydroxy groups of the silica surface in combination with
changes in the rigidity of the micellar packing in the silica film
and directional interactions between the functional groups
and the TDI molecules. In summary, single-molecule detec-
tion of dye molecules in porous structures reveals a wealth of
information about the topology, nanoscale connectivity, and
accessibility of the channels of a porous catalyst material.
2.4.2. Monitoring Base-Catalyzed and Bromination Reactions
with Single-Molecule Fluorescence Microscopy in an
Individual Layered Double Hydroxide Catalyst Crystal
Roeffaers et al. investigated base-catalyzed reactions over
individual layered double hydroxide (LDH) crystals of size
10–20 mm using fluorescence microscopy.[60] They studied two
distinct catalytic reactions, the hydrolysis and the transesteri-
fication
of
5-carboxyfluorescein
diacetate
(C-FDA,
Scheme 2), to distinguish different active-site populations in
an LDH catalyst particle. Their approach is schematically
illustrated in Figure 26a. C-FDA molecules become emissive
only upon hydrolysis or transesterification, for example with
1-butanol. By exposing the LDH crystals to solutions of C-
FDA, bright fluorescent spots are observed, which are due to
the formation of individual product molecules. Photobleach-
ing causes rapid disappearance of the fluorescent spots,
allowing the continuous detection of catalytic activity in
different region of the LDH crystals and yielding space-
resolved information on their reactivity.
Previous characterization studies indicated that the activ-
ity of LDH catalysts is not uniform and that most active sites
are probably located at the edges and corners of the crystals.
Figure 26a schematically illustrates the catalytic sites located
at the {0001} basal surface of an LDH crystal and OH ions at
the {101
¯0} faces, which appear in the microscopic images at
the edge of the LDH crystal. For the transesterification
reaction of C-FDA with 1-butanol, the spots appear all over
the basal surface without any preference for the crystal edges
(Figure 26b,c). Since no fluorescence signal was observed in
the solution surrounding the LDH crystal, it can be concluded
that the transesterification reaction is catalyzed by the LDH
material only. Instead, when the alcohol solvent in the ester
hydrolysis reaction was replaced by aqueous solution, the
fluorescent spots primarily occurred at the crystal edges, and
there were fewer at the basal surface (Figure 26d,e). By
carefully analyzing their set of data, Roeffaers et al.[60]
concluded that the catalytic activity of LDH materials is not
always associated with the same type of active sites; that is,
the transesterification reaction primarily occurs at the {0001}
plane, whereas the hydrolysis reaction requires the {101
¯0}
faces, where exchanged OH ions at the entrance of the LDH
galleries may be the active sites.
Furthermore, time-dependent experiments allowed deter-
mination of the reaction rate for both catalytic reactions. In
the case of the transesterification reaction of C-FDA with 1-
butanol, a typical rate of 7.2  1013 molm2s1 was found, in
agreement with transesterification rates measured for bulk
LDH samples. For the hydrolysis reaction of C-FDA in water
on an LDH catalyst particle, two active-site populations could
be discerned. Fluorescent spots formed on the {1010} faces of
the crystals correspond to at least 85% of the overall activity,
with an average rate of about 4.7  1012 molm2s1. The
remaining hydrolysis activity, originating from the {0001}
plane of the LDH crystals, has a rate of only 1.7  1013
molm2s1. In other words, this single-molecule study illus-
trates that the counting of single reaction turnovers allows
quantification of the heterogeneity of reaction kinetics at the
level of individual crystal faces.
Figure 26. a) Schematic drawing of the experimental setup used to measure single catalytic turnovers during the transformation of fluorescein
ester over an individual layered double hydroxide (LDH) particle using fluorescence microscopy. R=H for FDA and R=COOH for C-FDA. b,c) 2D
fluorescence images of the transesterification of C-FDA with 1-butanol at 40 and 700 nm ester concentration, respectively, on the same LDH
particle. d) 2D fluorescence image of the hydrolysis of 600 nm C-FDA on an LDH crystal, showing the formation of single product molecules
mainly at the crystal edges. e) Accumulated spot intensity on the same crystal over 256 consecutive images. Reproduced from reference [60],
copyright Nature Publishing Group, 2006.
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4934
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
In a related study, Martinez et al. explored single-mole-
cule events in an individual LDH crystal ion-exchanged with
WO4
2, which can be considered as an inorganic haloperox-
idase mimic.[61] The catalytic material was evaluated for the
generation of hypobromite (HOBr) from bromide and H2O2,
which can brominate organic compounds or decomposes
H2O2 into singlet O2 and water. HOBr is expected to migrate
into the reaction medium, where it performs the bromination
reaction. By introducing the nonfluorescent fluorescein
derivative aminophenyl fluorescein (APF, Scheme 2), it was
possible to localize the bromination of APF. APF reacts with
high rate and specificity with HOBr to form the strongly
emissive fluorescein (Scheme 2), which can then be readily
detected with fluorescence microscopy. By applying this
approach, the authors were able to provide experimental
evidence that HOBr performs reactions in the bulk solution
surrounding an individual WO4
2–LDH crystal, as fluorescein
formation could be observed at distances more than 800 nm
from the edge of the individual LDH crystal.
2.4.3. Single-Molecule Visualization of Redox Catalysis and
Photocatalysis with Fluorescence Microscopy
Xu et al.[62] studied the single-molecule turnovers of
nonfluorescent resazurin to its fluorescent derivative resor-
ufin (Scheme 2) by the addition of NH2OH over spherical
colloidal gold nanoparticles. For this purpose, individual Au
nanoparticles about 6 nm in size were immobilized on an
amine-functionalized glass surface and studied with total
internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM). Their
experimental approach and some of the results obtained are
shown in Figure 27. Movies of stochastic fluorescence bursts
were measured at many localized spots on the coated glass
surface (see single frame in Figure 27b); a typical time
trajectory of the fluorescence intensity from one of these
spots is given in Figure 27c. It can be concluded that the
fluorescent spots display stochastic off–on signals that span
the entire movie. The digital nature of the trajectory and the
consistent height of the on level indicate that each fluorescent
burst originates from a single resorufin molecule, which
results from catalytic turnover by a single Au nanoparticle.
Although the actual events of catalytic product formation
or product dissociation appear as instantaneous intensity
jumps in the fluorescence trajectories with the millisecond
time resolution used, the time needed for substrate diffusion,
binding, or thermal activation before such an event (the
“waiting time”) is much longer. This phenomenon is illus-
trated in Figure 27c.The toff and ton are the two waiting times
in these single-turnover fluorescence trajectories. Resolving
them could allow the kinetic mechanism of the catalysis
process to be probed in two parts; that is, toff is the waiting
time before each instance of resorufin formation, while ton is
the waiting time for resorufin dissociation after its formation.
Their individual values are stochastic, but their statistical
properties, such as average values and distributions, are well
defined by the underlying reaction kinetics. Statistically,
htoffi1 and htoni1 represent the time-averaged single-particle
rates of product formation and product dissociation, respec-
tively. When averaged over the turnover trajectories from
many Au nanoparticles, htoffi1 (the catalytic product forma-
tion rate) is expectedly dependent on the resazurin concen-
tration (denoted [S] below) and exhibits saturation kinetics.
Interestingly, a different behavior is observed for htoni1 (the
production dissociation rate), which also shows [S]-dependent
kinetics, thus indicating that the substrate participates in
production dissociation.
The [S] dependence of the production formation rate
htoffi1 can be described by a Langmuir–Hinshelwood mech-
Figure 27. Single-turnover detection of single Au nanoparticle catalysis: a) Schematic drawing of the experimental setup based on total internal
reflection fluorescence microscopy. b) Typical image of fluorescent products during catalysis taken at 100 ms per frame. The pixel size is about
270 nm, which results in the pixilated fluorescence spots. c) A segment of the fluorescence trajectory from the fluorescence spot marked by the
arrow in (b) at 0.05m resazurin and 1 mm NH2OH. d) Dependence of htoffi1 on resazurin concentration. e) Dependence of htoni1 on resazurin
concentration. The red, blue, and black curves correspond to three exemplary Au nanoparticles. Reproduced from reference [62], copyright Nature
Publishing Group, 2008 and Royal Society of Chemistry, 2009.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4935
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
anism, in which the nanoparticle catalyzes the substrate
conversion to the product while maintaining a fast substrate
adsorption equilibrium. However, the catalytic product for-
mation rates htoffi1 from individual nanoparticles reveal
distinct saturation levels and initial slopes with increasing [S]
(Figure 27d). Furthermore, the product dissociation rates
htoni1 from individual nanoparticles show three types of [S]
dependence (Figure 27e). More specifically, 66% of the Au
nanoparticles showed asymptotic increase in htoni1 with
increasing [S], which indicates that the nanoparticles prefer
the substrate-assisted dissociation pathway. In addition, 19%
of the Au nanoparticles show asymptotic decrease in htoni1
with increasing [S], which indicates that the nanoparticles
prefer the direct dissociation pathway. Finally, the remaining
15% of the nanoparticles have constant htoni1 at any [S]
concentration under study. These three different subpopula-
tions fully reflect the heterogeneous nature of the catalytic
process and more specifically the multiple dissociation
reaction pathways with distinct kinetics.
In another study, Naito et al. investigated the photo-
catalytic activity of individual porous TiO2 nanotubes by the
single-molecule counting of OH radicals using a specific
fluorescent probe.[63] For this purpose, a special setup was
built making use of TIRFM. The TiO2 nanotubes under study
contained straight macropores with mesopores between the
anatase nanoparticles. The photocatalytic activity of the
porous structure was evaluated by the single-molecule
counting of hydroxyl radicals (COH) using APF (Scheme 2).
The COH in the photocatalytic reaction can be generated by
the reduction or photodecomposition of H2O2, which is
formed by reduction of O2 by the conduction band or trapped
electrons in TiO2. The TiO2 nanotube placed in the sample
chamber is completely irradiated with UV light, and 488 nm
evanescent light produced by a CW Ar+ laser is used to excite
fluorescein (Scheme 2), which is catalytically generated from
APF. Time- and space-resolved observation of the photo-
catalytically generated fluorescein molecules clearly revealed
that the transport of reagents inherent in the porous
structures is closely related to the photocatalytic activity.
Furthermore, the researchers were able to reveal spatial
heterogeneity of reactive sites in an isolated TiO2 nanotube.
2.4.4. Chemical Mapping of the Fischer–Tropsch Catalytic Process
at the Nanoscale with Scanning Transmission X-ray
Microscopy
De Smit et al. used STXM to monitor phase changes in an
iron-based Fischer–Tropsch catalyst as well as to reveal
details of the nature and location of carbon species produced
during catalytic reaction.[64] In Fischer–Tropsch synthesis
(FTS), synthesis gas (a mixture of CO and H2) is converted
into hydrocarbon chains through a surface polymerization
reaction. The iron-based catalyst in question consists of iron
oxide dispersed on SiO2, with copper oxide and potassium
oxide to improve its performance. The main experimental
challenge in using in situ STXM is to overcome the strong
attenuation of soft X-rays by matter. For this purpose, a
special nanoreactor originally developed for in situ TEM
experiments was used.[65] The experimental setup is illustrated
in Figure 28a. The reactor consists of a chamber connected to
micrometer-size gas-flow channels. Two SiNx windows sepa-
rate the reactor from the outer environment. The windows are
etched down to a thickness of 10 nm in certain areas to
maximize X-ray transmission. Heating is provided by a Pt
spiral embedded in one of the windows. The reactor is
supported on an adapter mounted on a controlled stage that
can translate the sample in the X-ray beam with nanometer
precision. By doing so, it was possible to take STXM images
with a 35  35 nm2 step size.
Figure 28b–e shows 2D STXM contour plots of the Fe-
based FTS catalyst after calcination, after reduction in H2 at
3508C, and during CO hydrogenation at 2508C obtained by
monitoring the C K edge, O K edge, and the Fe L2 and L3
edges. This measurement procedure enabled the researchers
to precisely identify which Fe and C phases are present at the
nanometer scale in a gas atmosphere. From Figure 28b it was
concluded that the starting FTS catalyst material contains the
Fe phase mainly as a-Fe2O3, which is dispersed on SiO2. After
2 h in H2 at 3508C, the catalyst material shows significant
compositional changes. The 2D contour plot in Figure 28c
indicates that Fe2O3 is completely converted into a mixture of
other iron oxides. More specifically, it was found that regions
initially containing Fe2O3 were transformed into regions
containing various amounts of Fe3O4, Fe2SiO4, and Fe0.
During the subsequent FTS reaction in synthesis gas, the
Fe3O4 phase is further converted to Fe0 and Fe2SiO4.
Figure 28d shows the chemical composite contour map of
the selected region after 4 h of reaction. Quantitative analysis
of the Fe L2 and L3 edge spectra originating from region 1
suggests a catalyst phase composition of 20% Fe0, 75%
Fe2SiO4, and 5% Fe3O4. Region 2 in Figure 28d instead has a
chemical composition of approximately 40% Fe0, 50%
Fe2SiO4,
and
10%
Fe3O4.
Interestingly,
the
developed
method also allows the carbon species to be characterized
at the nanoscale using the C K edge. Figure 28e shows that
the Fe phase is converted into an iron carbide phase.
Interestingly,
in
the
region
where
less
Fe
is
present
(region 1), deposits with sp3-hybridized carbon centers can
be observed, indicative of FTS reaction products. The
presence of reactant carbon species in Fe-deficient areas
indicates that the support might have some role in the
spillover of hydrocarbon species from the active metal to the
support, thereby preventing blocking of the active site of the
catalyst material.
In a related study, De Smit et al.[66] compared the
reduction behavior of an iron-based FTS catalyst as probed
with STXM with average oxidation-state values obtained with
the bulk measuring method temperature-programmed reduc-
tion (TPR). Figure 29 shows the 2D STXM contour plots of a
Fe FTS catalyst particle measured in situ at increasing
reduction temperatures in a flow of H2. The average oxidation
state of iron can be determined by summing up the individual
contributions of all 35  35 nm2 pixels in each contour plot.
These numbers can be directly compared with values for the
bulk average iron oxidation state as determined with the TPR
method, which are included in Figure 29. A remarkable
correspondence was found, thus indicating that in situ STXM
reveals nanoscale differences in the redox behavior of a
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4936
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
catalyst material, but that these intricate differences still can
be explained, as they should be, in terms of the macroscopic
behavior of the catalyst material.
3. Future Prospects
The examples discussed above illustrate the enormous
potential for studying the dynamics and spatial heterogene-
ities of catalytic solids in great detail at different length scales.
As this research field is still in its infancy many more
breakthroughs are to be expected. It is my personal belief that
future breakthroughs can be made in at least the following
three areas of research.
3.1. Microscopy of Labeled Samples and Label-Free Microscopy
One of the goals of heterogeneous catalysis research is the
elucidation of reaction pathways, which requires the reliable
identification of reactant, potential intermediates, and prod-
uct molecules during a catalytic transformation process. It has
been shown in analytical sciences that molecular identifica-
tion and quantification can be done most reliably by using
electronic (UV/Vis and fluorescence), vibrational (IR and
Raman), and NMR spectroscopy as well as combinations of
these three methods. Each of these techniques, as discussed in
this Review, can be applied in a microscopic fashion, but
chemical information density and time resolution are of equal
importance. The most sensitive methods are based on
electronic spectroscopy. However, their use requires specific
probe reactions and marker molecules. These probe mole-
cules can be made visible by either UV/Vis or fluorescence
microscopy within a catalytic solid, preferably in 3D. This is
Figure 28. a) Experimental layout of scanning transmission X-ray microscopy (STXM) for measuring an iron-based Fischer–Tropsch catalyst
particle under reaction conditions. b–e) 2D STXM contour maps of a 400750 nm2 region: b) before treatment at room temperature in He,
c) after 2 h in H2 at 3508C, d) after 4 h in synthesis gas at 2508C, e) after 4 h in synthesis gas at 2508C showing the distribution of C species
overlaid on the Fe species map. Reproduced from reference [64], copyright Nature Publishing Group, 2008.
Figure 29. 2D Scanning transmission X-ray microscopy (STXM)
images of an iron-based Fischer–Tropsch catalyst particle, showing the
spatial distribution of the different Fe species in 1 bar H2 at a) 250,
b) 300, c) 350, and d) 4508C. The pixel dimensions are 3535 nm2.
The average valence of the whole catalyst particle is indicated in the
top right corner of each image. Reproduced from reference [66].
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4937
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
the field of label microscopy, and important developments in
biology and the life sciences have led to the advanced use of
many different fluorescent probes and molecular tags. As
shown by several examples in this Review, label microscopy is
slowly but surely making its way into the chemical imaging of
heterogeneous catalysts. A clear advantage is the strong
optical behavior of specific probe reactions, even allowing
single-molecule detection in specific cases. As a consequence,
the further development and use of a wider range of
fluorescent probes, their 3D detection, for example by
confocal microscopy, and their single-molecule detection
will make fluorescence microscopy a powerful and widely
useful imaging method for various forms of heterogeneous
catalysis.[67] Unfortunately, most probe reactions to date have
been developed for acid–base reactions, and clearly there is a
need for a broader variety of optical labels. More specifically,
by changing the size of the optical label, certain micro- and
mesopores can be selectively assessed, whereas pores that are
too small remain inaccessible for the markers. By connecting
reactivity and selectivity to these labels of different sizes, it
becomes possible to spatially resolve acid–base and redox
properties within a catalytic solid.
Although the use of optical labels clearly has its advan-
tages, it would be beneficial to monitor the reactants and
reaction products of relevance in a realistic chemical process
in 2D or 3D, a field which is coined label-free microscopy.
Infrared absorption and Raman scattering are ideally suited
for such developments, as the characteristic vibrations of
various chemical bonds and functional groups can be directly
probed. Another advantage is that well-known molecular
probes, such as CO, NO, and pyridine, have already been used
in combination with IR spectroscopy for assessing the
properties of acid sites and supported metal nanoparticles,
for example. Unfortunately, infrared microscopy has limited
spatial resolution, although by using synchrotron IR radiation
in combination with advanced focal plane array detection its
capabilities for catalysis research can be greatly improved.[68]
Spontaneous Raman scattering microscopy, on the other
hand, while having a spatial resolution comparable to that of
fluorescence microscopy, is rather insensitive and therefore
has a limited imaging speed. Surface-enhanced Raman
scattering (SERS) may significantly improve the sensitivity
of the Raman method. It has even been possible to achieve
single-molecule SERS for dye molecules on Ag colloids.[69]
An example on the application of in situ SERS to study the
citrate oxidation on silica-supported Ag nanoparticles was
reported by Tada et al.[70] An alternative way of measuring
Raman spectra is by applying the coherent anti-Stokes
Raman scattering (CARS) process to microscopy.[71] In
CARS microscopy, the temporally and spatially overlapped
pump and Stokes laser pulses are tightly focused into a sample
to generate a signal in a small volume. This procedure leads to
a much higher sensitivity than spontaneous Raman micro-
scopy. A first promising example of CARS microscopy close
to an application in catalysis was achieved by Schfer et al.[72]
This group has recently shown that concentration profiles for
the proton transfer reaction between pyrrolidine and acetic
acid could be quantitatively determined with 3D sub-micro-
meter spatial resolution. It is clear that this method has a lot
of potential for catalysis research. However, a CARS
spectrum differs from its corresponding Raman spectrum by
its nonresonant background, which complicates spectral
assignments, limits detection sensitivity, and causes difficul-
ties in interpretation of the images obtained. A promising
alternative to CARS microscopy is stimulated Raman scat-
tering (SRS), which is a 3D multiphoton vibrational imaging
technique. The strength of this method has been recently
illustrated by Freudiger et al. for biomedical imaging appli-
cations.[73]
3.2. Towards In Situ Optical Tomography at the Nanoscale
The above-mentioned developments for making assays of
optical labels to visualize pore architecture and catalytic
reactivity will go hand in hand with technical developments
for further improving the spatial resolution below the
diffraction limit of light (about 250 nm for UV/Vis light in
the lateral dimensions, Table 1) and the potential use of such
labels for single-molecule imaging. For example, to distin-
guish the signals from two identical fluorescent molecules that
are only a few tens of nanometers apart, the experimental
setup must ensure that the molecules do not emit simulta-
neously at all times with the same emission properties. In the
last 10 years we have seen the discovery of several appro-
priate experimental approaches, particularly developed for
life sciences, that allow lateral imaging resolutions of 20–
50 nm. The first involves active control through stimulated
emission depletion (STED), as developed by Hell and co-
workers,[74] while a second approach makes use of stochastic
readouts based on photophysical and photochemical effects
of the emitting source, such as photoinduced blinking,
bleaching, or switching. The latter approaches are termed
fluorescence
photoactivated
localization
microscopy
(FPALM)[75] and stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy
(STORM).[76] Although these techniques provide 2D image
“superresolution”, it would be advantageous to have high
resolution in the third dimension as well. Confocal micro-
scopy leads to axial resolutions of about 500 nm,[77] although it
can be improved to about 100 nm using 4Pi and I5M
microscopy.[78] With STED using the 4Pi illumination geom-
etry, an axial resolution of 30–50 nm can be reached,[79] while
more recently 3D STORM imaging has been developed using
optical astigmatism to determine both axial and lateral
positions of individual fluorescent molecules with nanometer
accuracy.[80] It is expected that the introduction of these
advanced FF fluorescence microscopy methods, when applied
in the field of heterogeneous catalysis, will further increase
our understanding of the pore architecture of complex
catalytic solids as well as their reaction mechanisms.
A similar trend towards increasing 2D and 3D imaging
capabilities can be found in the field of X-ray microscopy,
which fills the spatial resolution gap between optical micro-
scopy and electron microscopy. Although the manufacture of
high-resolution X-ray lenses is very challenging owing to
strong light absorption, it is clear that catalysis scientists will
benefit from expected advances in X-ray microscopy instru-
mentation. X-rays have very short wavelengths and are
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4938
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
therefore ideally suited for achieving high spatial resolution.
For example, the FF spatial resolution for X-ray imaging at
the C1s edge is 4 nm.[81] Furthermore, X-ray-based tomog-
raphy allows for the nondestructive, label-free chemical
imaging of catalytic solids. A first encouraging example of
computed microtomography and micro-X-ray fluorescence
for studying catalytic solids was reported by Jones et al.[82]
Current instrumentation for X-ray tomography at the nano-
scale falls into two categories:[83] microscopes that require
optics such as zone plates and microscopes that dont require
any focusing optical elements. An optics-based microscope
can be either a full-field transmission X-ray microscope
(TXM) or scanning transmission X-ray microscope (STXM).
Microscopes that dont require focusing optics are classified
as lensless projection imaging microscopes (PIMs) or diffrac-
tion imaging microscopes (DIMs). Tomographic measure-
ments can be carried out most easily with TXM, as the time
needed for a single image is much shorter, although beam
damage may then become a problem. Current spatial
resolutions are better than 15 nm,[84] and in the near future
the achievable resolution can be extended by further improv-
ing the X-ray optics.[85] Another way to achieve higher spatial
resolution is by combining diffraction imaging with STXM, as
recently illustrated by Thibault et al.[86] The developed high-
resolution scanning X-ray diffraction microscope may achieve
a spatial resolution below 10 nm by using the angularly
resolved transmitted diffraction patterns instead of total
transmission patterns when building up the STXM images.
3.3. Development of Correlative Microscopy Approaches
It is advantageous to look at catalysts from different
perspectives by making use of multiple techniques. In the last
decade many attempts have been made to combine multiple
spectroscopic techniques into one setup to perform correla-
tive spectroscopy on the same catalyst material under
identical conditions without the need for sample transfer.[87]
This approach has lead to the development of different
combined in situ setups, such as XRD/XAFS,[88] ESR/UV/
Vis,[89] Raman/UV/Vis,[90] NMR/UV/Vis,[91] Raman/IR,[92]
XAFS/IR,[93]
IR/UV/Vis,[94]
XAFS/Raman/UV/Vis,[95]
ESR/UV/Vis/Raman,[96]
and
XAFS/SAXS/WAXS/UV/
Vis/Raman
(XAFS = X-ray
absorption
fine
structure,
SAXS = small-angle X-ray scattering, WAXS = wide-angle
X-ray scattering).[97] Besides gathering complementary struc-
tural, electronic, and kinetic information on a catalytic
process, these methods also allow evaluation of the reliability
of the measurements by cross-checking two or more sets of
spectroscopic data. This last aspect is of prime importance
when working with lasers or synchrotron radiation. For
example, in the case of high-flux third-generation synchrotron
sources, X-ray-induced local heating or sample degradation
and reduction phenomena can seriously undermine the
reliability of the conclusions drawn.[98]
It is anticipated that the same experimental approach can
be used for the application of different microscopy methods
to the same catalyst material. The most evident combinations
are then based on optical methods, such as IR/Raman, UV/
Vis/Raman, and UV/Vis/fluorescence microscopy combina-
tions, some of which are already commercially available or in
their final development phase. Combinations of other micro-
scopic techniques, already available for other fields of
application, could also find their way into the field of
heterogeneous catalysis. One such setup has been developed
by Majors et al. and involves the combination of confocal
fluorescence microscopy with NMR microscopy.[99] Another
possibility includes the combination of fluorescence micro-
scopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Detailed
structural studies of catalyst materials with nanometer or
ngstrm resolution can be performed with TEM. However,
its high spatial resolution makes scanning of complete TEM
grids at such high resolution extremely time-consuming. This
limitation has motivated researchers to pursue imaging
methods that combine TEM with either fluorescence[100] or
Raman microscopy.[101] In the case of fluorescence microscopy
most correlative microscopy has been carried out in two
separate setups.[104] Fluorescence microscopy is first employed
to identify and locate features of interest, while TEM is used
to map the ultrastructure within a specimen. Carrying out
such experiments using two separate instruments is, however,
cumbersome. The main problem is the pin-pointing in the
TEM image the region of interest identified by fluorescence
microscopy. This is time-consuming and error-prone, even
when the labeling is done with markers that are visible with
both techniques. Furthermore, the transfer of the specimen
from the fluorescence microscope to the TEM instrument
involves additional handling steps that may compromise the
integrity of the specimen. Detailed protocols have been
proposed for improving the success rate of recording corre-
lative microscopy images. A recent development has been the
integration of a laser scanning fluorescence microscope in a
TEM microscope.[102] Using this approach the search for
features in the specimen is greatly simplified, and the time
necessary to carry out the experiment is significantly reduced.
It is anticipated that these correlative methods and their
extension with other optical methods will bring new insights
to the field of heterogeneous catalysts.
A final promising area of correlative microscopy is the
combination of atomic force microscopy (AFM) methods[103]
with optical techniques, such as fluorescence, IR, and Raman
spectroscopy. This is the area of scanning near-field optical
microscopy (SNOM), which allows for spatial resolutions
below 100 nm and can therefore be considered as a true
nanoscopy method.[104] AFM methods have already been
successfully applied in the field of heterogeneous catalysis.
For example, AFM has been used to study the surface
topography of microporous materials, such as zeolites, and for
the characterization of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) cata-
lysts.[105] Since commercial instrumentation that couples
SNOM with Raman and/or fluorescence microscopy exists,
it is expected that these methods will soon be applied to
catalytic solids under in situ conditions. A first attempt in this
direction has been made by Fokas and Deckert, showing
SERS effects under nonreactive conditions for benzene
deposited onto a Ag/Pd substrate.[106] Another related
approach is tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (TERS),
which has shown 15 nm spatial resolution and allows for
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4939
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
single-molecule detection at well-defined surfaces.[107] Other
interesting avenues based on near-field spectroscopy concepts
include the use of scanning near field infrared microscopy
(SNIM)[108] and terahertz near-field microscopy.[109] The
former method allows label-free spectroscopy by measuring
local infrared spectra with a spatial resolution down to 30 nm.
B.M.W. acknowledges financial support from the Netherlands
Organization for Scientific Research (NWO-CW: Van der
Leeuw, VICI, and TOP grants), the Advanced Chemical
Technology
for
Sustainability
program
(ACTS-ASPECT
grants),
Top
Research
School
Combination
Catalysis
(NRSC-Catalysis), Albemarle Catalysts, Toyota, Dow Chem-
icals, BASF, Total, SK Energy and Shell. This Review is
dedicated to the many PhD students, postdoctoral fellows, and
scientific and technical staff at Utrecht University for their
contributions to the field of space- and time-resolved in situ
spectroscopy.
Received: January 19, 2009
[1] Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, 2nd ed. (Eds.: G. Ertl,
H. Knozinger, F. Schuth, J. Weitkamp), Wiley-VCH, Weinheim,
2008.
[2] J. Hagen, Industrial Catalysis: A Practical Approach, Wiley-
VCH, Weinheim, 1999.
[3] H. F. Rase, Handbook of Commercial Catalysts, CRC, New
York, 2000.
[4] Supported Metals in Catalysis (Eds.: J. A. Anderson, M.
Fernandez Garcia), Imperial College Press, London, 2005.
[5] J. M. Thomas, W. J. Thomas, Principles and Practice of Hetero-
geneous Catalysis, VCH, Weinheim, 1997.
[6] J. W. Niemantsverdriet, Spectroscopy in Catalysis, An Intro-
duction, 3rd ed., VCH, Weinheim, 2007.
[7] A typical example of a heterogeneous catalyst that contains a
wide variety of active sites, each with their own reactivity, is the
Cr/SiO2 Phillips catalyst. This material is responsible for about
40% of the worldwide production of high-density and linear
low-density polyethylene (HDPE and LLDPE). Different Cr2+
and Cr3+ species can coexist, each with their own degree of
coordinative unsaturation and related ethylene polymerization
activity. The relative population of these species can be
interchanged by applying specific chemical or thermal treat-
ments. For more details, see: B. M. Weckhuysen, I. E. Wachs,
R. A. Schoonheydt, Chem. Rev. 1996, 96, 3327; B. M. Weck-
huysen, R. A. Schoonheydt, Catal. Today 1999, 51, 215; E.
Groppo, C. Lamberti, S. Bordiga, G. Spoto, A. Zecchina, Chem.
Rev. 2005, 105, 115; C. N. Nenu, E. Groppo, C. Lamberti, A. M.
Beale, T. Visser, A. Zecchina, B. M. Weckhuysen, Angew.
Chem. 2007, 119, 1487; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 1465.
[8] To date, two books cover the field of in situ spectroscopy of
catalytic solids: In-Situ Spectroscopy in Heterogeneous Catal-
ysis (Ed.: J. F. Haw), Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2002; In-Situ
Spectroscopy of Catalysts (Ed.: B. M. Weckhuysen), American
Scientific Publishers, 2004.
[9] Several reviews cover the field of in situ spectroscopy of
catalytic solids dealing with 0D measurements: B. M. Weck-
huysen, Chem. Commun. 2002, 97; B. M. Weckhuysen, Phys.
Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4351; M. Hunger, J. Weitkamp,
Angew. Chem. 2001, 113, 3040; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2001, 40,
2954; M. A. Banares, Catal. Today 2005, 100, 71; C. Lamberti,
E. Groppo, G. Spoto, S. Bordiga, A. Zecchina, Adv. Catal. 2007,
51, 1; P. C. Stair, Adv. Catal. 2007, 51, 75; J. M. Thomas, C. R. A.
Catlow, G. Sankar, Chem. Commun. 2002, 2921; J. M. Thomas,
Angew. Chem. 1999, 111, 3800; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1999, 38,
3588; H. Topsøe, J. Catal. 2003, 216, 155.
[10] Examples of the development of structure–activity relation-
ships in the field of metal catalysis: M. Tada, Y. Akatsuka, Y.
Yang, T. Sasaki, M. Kinoshita, K. Motokura, Y. Iwasawa,
Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 9392; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47,
9252; M. Tada, Y. Iwasawa, Coord. Chem. Rev. 2007, 251, 2702;
T. Yamamoto, A. Suzuki, Y. Nagai, T. Tanabe, F. Dong, Y.
Inada, M. Nomura, M. Tada, Y. Iwasawa, Angew. Chem. 2007,
119, 9413; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 9253; M. Tada, R.
Coquet, J. Yoshida, M. Kinoshita, Y. Iwasawa, Angew. Chem.
2007, 119, 7358; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7220; J. Singh,
E. M. C. Alayon, M. Tromp, O. V. Safonova, P. Glatzel, M.
Nachtegaal, R. Frahm, J. A. van Bokhoven, Angew. Chem.
2008, 120, 9400; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 9260; E. Bus,
D. E. Ramaker, J. A. van Bokhoven, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007,
129, 8094; J. A. van Bokhoven, C. Louis, J. T. Miller, M. Tromp,
O. V. Safonova, P. Glatzel, Angew. Chem. 2006, 118, 4767;
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 4651; F. C. Meunier, A.
Goguet, S. Shekhtman, D. Rooney, H. Daly, Appl. Catal. A
2008, 340, 196; F. C. Meunier, A. Goguet, C. Hardacre, R.
Burch, D. Thompsett, J. Catal. 2007, 252, 18; F. C. Meunier, D.
Reid, A. Goguet, S. Shekhtman, C. Hardacre, R. Burch, W.
Deng, M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos, J. Catal. 2007, 247, 277;
J. M. Thomas, R. Raja, Acc. Chem. Res. 2008, 41, 708; J. M.
Thomas, R. Raja, D. W. Lewis, Angew. Chem. 2005, 117, 6614;
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 6456.
[11] Examples of the development of structure–activity relation-
ships in the field of metal oxide catalysis: M. V. Martinez-
Huerta, G. Deo, J. L. G. Fierro, M. A. Banares, J. Phys. Chem. C
2008, 112, 11441; H. Si-Ahmed, M. Calatayud, C. Minot, E. L.
Diz, A. E. Lewandowska, M. A. Banares, Catal. Today 2007,
126, 96; M. V. Martinez-Huerta, X. Gao, H. Tian, I. E. Wachs,
J. L. G. Fierro, M. A. Banares, Catal. Today 2006, 118, 279;
M. A. Banares, S. J. Khatib, Catal. Today 2004, 96, 251; C. L.
Zhao, I. E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 11363; T. Kim, A.
Burrows, C. J. Kiely, I. E. Wachs, J. Catal. 2007, 246, 370; H. J.
Tian, E. I. Ross, I. E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 9593;
I. E. Wachs, Catal. Today 2005, 100, 79; I. E. Wachs, Y. Chen,
J. M. Jehng, L. E. Briand, T. Tanaka, Catal. Today 2003, 78, 13;
S. W. Yang, E. Iglesia, A. T. Bell, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109,
8987; M. D. Argyle, K. D. Chen, C. Resini, C. Krebs, A. T. Bell,
E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 2345; M. D. Argyle, K. D.
Chen, C. Resini, C. Krebs, A. T. Bell, E. Iglesia, Chem.
Commun. 2003, 2082; E. Groppo, C. Lamberti, F. Cesano, A.
Zecchina, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 2453; S. Bordiga, S.
Bertarione, A. Damn, C. Prestipino, G. Spoto, C. Lamberti, A.
Zecchina, J. Mol. Catal. A 2003, 204, 527; Z. L. Wu, P. C. Stair, J.
Catal. 2006, 237, 220; Y. Zhang, A. T. Bell, J. Catal. 2008, 255,
153; M. H. Groothaert, J. A. van Bokhoven, A. A. Battiston,
B. M. Weckhuysen, R. A. Schoonheydt, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2003, 125, 7629; S. Bordiga, F. Bonino, A. Damin, C. Lamberti,
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2007, 9, 4854; G. Ertl, Angew. Chem.
2008, 120, 3578; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 3524; S. O.
Lee, R. Raja, K. D. M. Harris, J. M. Thomas, B. F. G. Johnson,
G. Sankar, Angew. Chem. 2003, 115, 1558; Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 2003, 42, 1520.
[12] G. Ertl, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 3578; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2008, 47, 3524; J. Wolff, A. G. Papathanasiou, Y. Kevrekidis,
H. H. Rotermund, G. Ertl, Science 2001, 294, 134; C. Sachs, M.
Hildebrand, S. Volkening, J. Wintterlin, G. Ertl, Science 2001,
293, 1635; M. Kim, M. Bertram, M. Pollmann, A. van Oertzen,
A. S. Mikhailov, H. H. Rotermund, G. Ertl, Science 2001, 292,
1357.
[13] It is important to realize that the movie does not completely
reflect reality. More specifically, the visualized industrial plant
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4940
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
does not make use of Pt–Sn nanoparticles occluded in the
supercages of zeolite Y, as suggested in the movie, but is based
on a Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. For details on the Houdry alkane
dehydrogenation
process,
see:
B. M.
Weckhuysen,
R. A.
Schoonheydt, Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223. Furthermore, the
movie has proven to be very instructive for catalysis courses for
bachelor and master students. When using this movie for
educational purposes, please make reference to this Review.
[14] R. Narayanan, M. A. El-Sayed, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109,
12663; A. Zecchina, E. Groppo, S. Bordiga, Chem. Eur. J. 2007,
13, 2440.
[15] N. Tian, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, Y. Ding, Z. L. Wang, Science
2007, 316, 732; D. Feldheim, Science 2007, 316, 699; Y. Xiong,
B. J. Wiley, Y. Xia, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 7291; Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7157.
[16] H. Su, E. S. Yeung, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7422; H. Su, Y.
Hou, R. S. Houk, G. L. Schrader, E. S. Yeung, Anal. Chem.
2001, 73, 4434; H. Su, E. S. Yeung, Appl. Spectrosc. 2002, 56,
1044; R. A. Potyrailo, J. P. Lemmon, T. K. Leib, Anal. Chem.
2003, 75, 4676; G. Li, D. Hu, G. Xia, J. M. White, C. Zhang, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. 2008, 79, 074101; F. Aiouache, H. Oyama, K.
Kitagawa, AIChE J. 2006, 52, 1516; C. M. Snively, G. Oskars-
dottir, J. Lauterbach, Catal. Today 2001, 67, 357; P. Kubanek, O.
Busch, S. Thomson, H. W. Schmidt, F. Schuth, J. Comb. Chem.
2004, 6, 420; O. M. Busch, W. Brijoux, S. Thomson, F. Schuth, J.
Catal. 2004, 222, 174; R. J. Hendershot, R. Vijay, B. J. Feist,
C. M. Snively, J. Lauterbach, Meas. Sci. Technol. 2005, 16, 302.
[17] E. H. L. Yuen, A. J. Sederman, L. F. Gladden, Appl. Catal. A
2002, 232, 29; L. F. Gladden, M. D. Mantle, A. J. Sederman,
Adv. Catal. 2006, 50, 1.
[18] I. V. Koptyug, A. A. Lysova, R. Z. Sagdeev, V. N. Parmon,
Catal. Today 2007, 126, 37; A. A. Lysova, I. V. Koptyug, A. V.
Kulikov, V. A. Kirilov, R. Z. Sagdeev, V. N. Parmon, Chem.
Eng. J. 2007, 130, 101; I. V. Koptyug, A. A. Lysova, A. V.
Kulikov, V. A. Kirilov, V. N. Parmon, R. Z. Sagdeev, Appl.
Catal. A 2004, 267, 143.
[19] B. S. Akpa, M. D. Mantle, A. J. Sederman, L. F. Gladden,
Chem. Commun. 2005, 2741.
[20] A. J. Sederman, M. D. Mantle, C. P. Dunckley, Z. Huang, L. F.
Gladden, Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 1.
[21] L. S. Bouchard, K. V. Kovtunov, S. R. Burt, M. S. Anwar, I. V.
Koptyug, R. Z. Sagdeev, A. Pines, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119,
4142; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 4064.
[22] L. S. Bouchard, S. R. Burt, M. S. Anwar, K. V. Kovtunov, I. V.
Koptyug, A. Pines, Science 2008, 319, 442.
[23] J. D. Grunwaldt, S. Hannemann, C. G. Schroer, A. Baiker, J.
Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 8674.
[24] S. Hannemann, J. D. Grunwaldt, N. van Vegten, A. Baiker, P.
Boye, C. G. Schroer, Catal. Today 2007, 126, 54.
[25] J. D. Grunwaldt, B. Kimmerle, A. Baiker, P. Boye, C. G.
Schroer, P. Glatzel, C. N. Borca, F. Beckmann, Catal. Today
2009, DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2008.11.002.
[26] A. Urakawa, N. Maeda, A. Baiker, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120,
9396; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 9256.
[27] T. A. Nijhuis, S. J. Tinnemans, T. Visser, B. M. Weckhuysen,
Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 5487.
[28] R. Morschl, J. Bolten, A. Bonnefont, K. Krischer, J. Phys.
Chem. C 2008, 112, 9548.
[29] J. A. Bergwerff, L. G. A. van de Water, T. Visser, P. de Peinder,
B. R. G. Leliveld, K. P. de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Eur.
J. 2005, 11, 4591.
[30] T. Mang, B. Breitscheidel, P. Polanek, H. Knozinger, Appl.
Catal. A 1993, 106, 239.
[31] J. A. Bergwerff, T. Visser, B. R. G. Leliveld, B. A. Rossenaar,
K. P. de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126,
14548; J. A. Bergwerff, L. G. A. van de Water, A. A. Lysova,
I. V. Koptyug, T. Visser, K. P. de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 2006, 162, 175; J. A. Bergwerff, T. Visser, B. M.
Weckhuysen, Catal. Today 2008, 130, 117.
[32] L. G. A. van de Water, J. A. Bergwerff, T. A. Nijhuis, K. P.
de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 5024;
L. G. A. van de Water, J. A. Bergwerff, B. R. G. Leliveld, B. M.
Weckhuysen, K. P. de Jong, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 14513.
[33] L. Espinosa Alonso, K. P
. de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Phys.
Chem. C 2008, 112, 7201.
[34] A. A. Lysova, I. V. Koptyug, R. Z. Sagdeev, V. N. Parmon, J. A.
Bergwerff, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127,
11916.
[35] J. A. Bergwerff, A. A. Lysova, L. Espinosa Alonso, I. V.
Koptyug, B. M. Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 7362;
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7224.
[36] J. A. Bergwerff, A. A. Lysova, L. Espinosa Alonso, I. V.
Koptyug, B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Eur. J. 2008, 14, 2363.
[37] The indirect 1H MRI method can be further refined by making
use of the different relaxation times of distinct transition-metal
ion complexes occluded in the pores of catalyst bodies. For a
recent example on Ni2+ complexes, see: L. Espinosa-Alonso,
A. A. Lysova, P. de Peinder, K. P. de Jong, I. V. Koptyug, B. M.
Weckhuysen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 6525. Futhermore,
transition-metal ions can also be directly probed by EPR
microscopy. This technique was first applied in the field of
heterogeneous catalysis by Zu et al. for spatially probing V4+
and Mo5+ in SiO2-based catalyst bodies: Y. Zu, M. Furusawa,
M. Ikeya, Y. Kera, K. Kuwata, Chem. Lett. 1991, 293. There are
two other reports on the application of EPR microscopy on
catalytic solids: O. E. Yakimchenko, E. N. Degtyarev, V. N.
Parmon, Y. S. Lebedev, J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 2038; Z. Xiang,
Y. Xu, Appl. Magn. Reson. 1997, 12, 68.
[38] L. G. A. van de Water, G. L. Bezemer, J. A. Bergwerff, M.
Versluijs-Helder, B. M. Weckhuysen, K. P. de Jong, J. Catal.
2006, 242, 287.
[39] J. A. Bergwerff, M. Jansen, B. R. G. Leliveld, T. Visser, K. P.
de Jong, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Catal. 2006, 243, 292.
[40] A. M. Beale, S. D. M. Jacques, J. A. Bergwerff, P. Barnes, B. M.
Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 8988; Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 2007, 46, 8832.
[41] J. Krger, P. Kortunov, S. Vasenkov, L. Heinke, D. B. Shah,
R. A. Rakoczy, Y. Traa, J. Weitkamp, Angew. Chem. 2006, 118,
8010; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 7846.
[42] D. Tzoulaki, L. Heinke, W. Schmidt, U. Wilczok, J. Krger,
Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 4018; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47,
3954.
[43] P. Kortunov, S. Vasenkov, C. Chmelik, J. Krger, D. M.
Ruthven, J. Wloch, Chem. Mater. 2004, 16, 3552.
[44] O. Geier, S. Vasenkov, E. Lehmann, J. Krger, U. Schemmert,
R. A. Rakoczy, J. Weitkamp, J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 10217.
[45] M. B. J. Roeffaers, B. F. Sels, H. Uji-i, B. Blanpain, P. L’hoest,
P. A. Jacobs, F. C. De Schryver, J. Hofkens, D. E. De Vos,
Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 1736; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46,
1706;.
[46] M. B. J. Roeffaers, R. Ameloot, A. J. Bons, W. Mortier, G.
De Cremer, R. De Kloe, J. Hofkens, D. E. De Vos, B. F. Sels, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 13516.
[47] L. Karwacki, E. Stavitski, M. H. F. Kox, J. Kornatowski, B. M.
Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 7366; Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 2007, 46, 7228.
[48] C. Seebacher, J. Rau, F. W. Deeg, C. Bruchle, S. Altmaier, R.
Jager, P. Behrens, Adv. Mater. 2001, 13, 1374.
[49] M. B. J. Roeffaers, R. Ameloot, M. Baruah, H. Uji-i, M. Bulut,
G. De Cremer, U. Muller, P. A. Jacobs, J. Hofkens, B. F. Sels,
D. E. De Vos, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5763.
[50] M. H. F. Kox, E. Stavitski, B. M. Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem.
2007, 119, 3726; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 3652.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4941
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
[51] E. Stavitski, M. H. F. Kox, B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Eur. J.
2007, 13, 7057.
[52] E. Stavitski, M. H. F. Kox, I. Swart, F. M. F. de Groot, B. M.
Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 3599; Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 2008, 47, 3543; R. A. Schoonheydt, Angew. Chem. 2008,
120, 9328; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 9188.
[53] E. Stavitski, M. R. Drury, D. A. M. de Winter, M. H. F. Kox,
B. M. Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 5719; Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 5637.
[54] M. H. F. Kox, E. Stavitski, J. C. Groen, J. Perez-Ramirez, F.
Kapteijn, B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Eur. J. 2008, 14, 1718.
[55] D. Mores, E. Stavitski, M. H. F. Kox, J. Kornatowski, U. Olsbye,
B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Eur. J. 2008, 14, 11320.
[56] A. Zrner, J. Kirstein, M. Doblinger, C. Bruchle, T. Bein,
Nature 2007, 450, 705.
[57] C. Jung, J. Kirstein, B. Platschek, T. Bein, M. Budde, I. Frank,
K. Mllen, J. Michaelis, C. Bruchle, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008,
130, 1638.
[58] J. Kirstein, B. Platschek, C. Jung, R. Brown, T. Bein, C.
Bruchle, Nat. Mater. 2007, 6, 303.
[59] T. Lebold, L. A. Mhlstein, J. Blechinger, M. Riederer, H.
Amenitsch, R. Kohn, K. Peneva, K. Mllen, J. Michaelis, C.
Bruchle, T. Bein, Chem. Eur. J. 2009, 15, 1661.
[60] M. B. J. Roeffaers, B. F. Sels, H. Uji-i, F. C. De Schryver, P. A.
Jacobs, D. E. De Vos, J. Hofkens, Nature 2006, 439, 572; B. M.
Weckhuysen, Nature 2006, 439, 548.
[61] V. Martinez Martinez, G. De Cremer, M. B. J. Roeffaers, M.
Sliwa, M. Baruah, D. E. De Vos, J. Hofkens, B. F. Sels, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 13192.
[62] W. Xu, J. S. Kong, Y. T. E. Yeh, P. Chen, Nat. Mater. 2008, 7,
992; W. Xu, J. S. Kong, P. Chen, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009,
11, 2767.
[63] K. Naito, T. Tachikawa, M. Fujitsuka, T. Majima, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2009, 131, 934.
[64] E. De Smit, I. Swart, J. F. Creemer, G. H. Hoveling, M. K.
Gilles, T. Tyliszczak, P. J. Kooyman, H. W. Zandbergen, C.
Morin, B. M. Weckhuysen, F. M. F. De Groot, Nature 2008, 456,
222; A. T. Bell, Nature 2008, 456, 185; J. M. Thomas, J. C.
Hernandez-Garrido, Angew. Chem. 2009, 121, 3962; Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 3904..
[65] J. F. Creemer, S. Helveg, G. H. Hoveling, S. Ullmann, A. M.
Molenbroek, P. M. Sarro, H. W. Zandbergen, Ultramicroscopy
2008, 108, 993.
[66] E. De Smit, I. Swart, J. F. Creemer, C. Karunakaran, D.
Bertwistle, H. W. Zandbergen, F. M. F. de Groot, B. M. Weck-
huysen, Angew. Chem. 2009, 121, 3686; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2009, 48, 3632.
[67] M. B. J. Roeffaers, G. De Cremer, H. Uji-I, B. Muls, B. F. Sels,
P. A. Jacobs, F. C. De Schryver, D. E. De Vos, J. Hofkens, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007, 104, 12603; M. B. J. Roeffaers, J.
Hofkens, G. De Cremer, F. C. De Schryver, P
. A. Jacobs, D. E.
De Vos, B. F. Sels, Catal. Today 2007, 126, 44.
[68] J. Susini, M. Cotte, K. Scheidt, O. Chubar, F. Polack, P. Dumas,
Synchrotron Radiat. News 2007, 20, 13; L. M. Miller, R. J.
Smith, G. L. Carr, Synchrotron Radiat. News 2007, 20, 25; P.
Lasch, D. Naumann, Biochim. Biophys. Acta Biomembr. 2006,
1758, 814; L. H. Kidder, I. W. Levin, E. N. Lewis, V. D. Klei-
man, E. J. Heilweil, Opt. Lett. 1997, 22, 742; L. H. Kidder, V. F.
Kalasinsky, J. L. Luke, I. W. Levin, E. N. Lewis, Nat. Med. 1997,
3, 235.
[69] L. Brus, Acc. Chem. Res. 2008, 41, 1742; S. M. Nie, S. R. Emery,
Science 1997, 275, 1102; K. Kneipp, Y. Wang, H. Kneipp, L. T.
Perelman, I. Itzkan, R. Dasari, M. S. Feld, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1997,
78, 1667.
[70] H. Tada, J. Bronkema, A. T. Bell, Catal. Lett. 2003, 92, 93. Most
examples of SERS in the field of catalysis can be found for
electrochemical reactions in the liquid phase, whereas the use
of SERS for gas-phase reactions on solid surfaces is quite
limited.
[71] A. Zumbusch, G. R. Holtom, X. S. Xie, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1999,
82, 4142; J. X. Cheng, X. S. Xie, J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 827;
L. Li, J. X. Cheng, J. Phys. Chem. B 2008, 112, 1576; C. L.
Evans, X. S. Xie, Annu. Rev. Anal. Chem. 2008, 1, 883;
M.
Mller, A. Zumbusch, ChemPhysChem 2007, 8, 2156..
[72] D. Schfer, J. A. Squier, J. Van Maarseveen, D. Bonn, M. Bonn,
M. Mller, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 11592.
[73] C. W. Freudiger, W. Min, B. G. Saar, S. Lu, G. R. Holtom, C. He,
J. C. Tsai, J. X. Kang, X. S. Xie, Science 2008, 322, 1857.
[74] S. W. Hell, Opt. Lett. 1994, 19, 780; T. A. Klar, S. W. Hell, Opt.
Lett. 1999, 24, 954; T. A. Klar, S. Jakobs, M. Dyba, A. Egner,
S. W. Hell, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2000, 97, 8206; S. W. Hell,
Science 2007, 316, 1153.
[75] S. T. Hess, T. K. P. Giriajan, M. D. Mason, Biophys. J. 2006, 91,
4258; S. T. Hess, T. J. Gould, M. V. Gudheti, S. A. Maas, K. D.
Mills, J. Wichmann, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007, 104,
17370.
[76] M. J. Rust, M. Bates, X. Zhuang, Nat. Methods 2006, 3, 793; M.
Bates, B. Huang, G. T. Dempsey, X. Zhuang, Science 2007, 317,
1749.
[77] P. Torok, T. Wilson, Opt. Commun. 1997, 137, 127; W. R. Zipfel,
R. M. Williams, W. W. Webb, Nat. Biotechnol. 2003, 21, 1369.
[78] M. Nagorni, S. W. Hell, J. Struct. Biol. 1998, 123, 236; A. Egner,
S. W. Hell, Trends Cell Biol. 2005, 15, 207.
[79] S. W. Hell, Nat. Biotechnol. 2003, 21, 1347.
[80] B. Huang, W. Wang, M. Bates, X. Zhuang, Science 2008, 319,
810.
[81] A. P. Hitchcock, J. J. Dynes, G. Johansson, J. Wang, G. Botton,
Micron 2008, 39, 741.
[82] K. W. Jones, H. Feng, A. Lanzirotti, D. Mahajan, Nucl. Instrum.
Methods Phys. Res. Sect. B 2005, 241, 331; K. W. Jones, H. Feng,
A. Lanzirotti, D. Mahajan, Top. Catal. 2005, 32, 263.
[83] M. A. Le Gros, G. McDermott, C. A. Larabell, Curr. Opin.
Struct. Biol. 2005, 15, 593; D. Y. Parkinson, G. McDermott,
L. D. Etkin, M. A. Le Gros, C. A. Larabell, J. Struct. Biol. 2008,
162, 380; C. A. Larabell, M. A. Le Gros, Mol. Biol. Cell 2004,
15, 957; G. Mitrea, J. Thieme, P. Guttmann, S. Heim, S. Gleber,
J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2008, 15, 26.
[84] K. V. Kaznatcheev, C. Karunankaran, U. D. Lanke, S. G.
Urquhart, M. Obst, A. P. Hitchcock, Nucl. Instrum. Methods
Phys. Res. Sect. A 2007, 582, 96; W. Chao, B. Harteneck, J. A.
Liddle, E. H. Anderson, D. Attwood, Nature 2005, 435, 1210;
H. C. Kang, H. Yan, R. P. Winarski, M. V. Holt, J. Maser, C. Liu,
R. Conley, S. Vogt, A. T. Macrander, G. B. Stephenson, Appl.
Phys. Lett. 2008, 92, 221114; T. Koyama, S. Ichimaru, T. Tsjuji,
H. Takano, Y. Kagoshima, T. Ohchi, H. Takenaka, Appl. Phys.
Express 2008, 1, 117003.
[85] The spatial resolution for hard X-rays (about 30 nm) is still less
developed than for soft X-rays, as the latter also allow element-
specific analysis. In the case of soft X-rays, current test zone
plates can bring the spatial resolution down to 10 nm.
[86] P. Thibault, M. Direolf, A. Menzel, O. Bunk, C. David, F.
Pfeiffer, Science 2008, 321, 379; H. N. Chapman, Science 2008,
321, 352.
[87] A. Brckner, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 2003, 45, 97; S. J. Tinnemans,
J. G. Mesu, K. Kervinen, T. Visser, T. A. Nijhuis, A. M. Beale,
D. E. Keller, A. M. J. van der Eerden, B. M. Weckhuysen,
Catal. Today 2006, 113, 3; A. Iglesias-Juez, A. M. Beale,
M. G. OBrien, M. A. Newton, W. Bras, B. M. Weckhuysen,
Synchrotron Radiat. News 2009, 22, 22.
[88] I. J. Shannon, T. Maschmeyer, G. Sankar, J. M. Thomas, R. D.
Oldroyd, M. Sheehy, D. Madill, A. M. Waller, R. P. Townsed,
Catal. Lett. 1997, 44, 23; J. W. Couves, J. M. Thomas, D. Waller,
R. H. Jones, A. J. Dent, G. E. Derbyshire, G. N. Greaves,
Nature 1991, 354, 465; B. S. Clausen, L. Grabaek, G. Steffensen,
B. M. Weckhuysen
Reviews
4942
www.angewandte.org
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
P. L. Hansen, H. Topsoe, Catal. Lett. 1993, 20, 23; J. D.
Grunwaldt, A. M. Molenbroek, N. Y. Topsoe, H. Topsoe, B. S.
Clausen, J. Catal. 2000, 194, 452.
[89] A. Brckner, Chem. Commun. 2001, 2122; M. S. Kumar, M.
Schwidder, W. Grnert, A. Brckner, J. Catal. 2004, 227, 384.
[90] T. A. Nijhuis, S. J. Tinnemans, T. Visser, B. M. Weckhuysen,
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4361; S. J. Tinnemans,
M. H. F. Kox, T. A. Nijhuis, T. Visser, B. M. Weckhuysen,
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 211; S. J. Tinnemans, M. H. F.
Kox, M. W. Sietering, T. A. Nijhuis, T. Visser, B. M. Weckhuy-
sen, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 2413.
[91] M. Hunger, W. Wang, Chem. Commun. 2004, 584; W. Wang,
Y. J. Jiang, M. Hunger, Catal. Today 2006, 113, 102; J. Jiang, J.
Huang, V. R. Reddy, O. Y. Sang, M. Hunger, Microporous
Mesoporous Mater. 2007, 105, 132; J. Huang, Y. J. Jiang,
M. V. R. Reddy, O. Y. Sang, M. Hunger, ChemPhysChem
2008, 9, 1107.
[92] G. Le Bourdon, F. Adar, M. Moreau, S. Morel, J. Reffner, A. S.
Mamede, C. Dujardin, E. Payen, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.
2003, 5, 4441.
[93] M. A. Newton, B. Jyoti, A. J. Dent, S. G. Fiddy, J. Evans, Chem.
Commun. 2004, 2382; M. A. Newton, A. J. Dent, S. G. Fiddy, B.
Jyoti, J. Evans, Catal. Today 2007, 126, 64; M. A. Newton, C.
Belver-Coldeira, A. Martinez-Arias, M. Fernandez-Garcia,
Nat. Mater. 2007, 6, 528; A. J. Dent, J. Evans, S. G. Fiddy, B.
Jyoti, M. A. Newton, M. Tromp, Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 5452;
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 5356; J. Evans, A. Puig-Molina,
M. Tromp, MRS Bull. 2007, 32, 1038; M. A. Newton, Chem.
Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2644; A. J. Dent, J. Evans, S. G. Fiddy, B.
Jyoti, M. A. Newton, M. Tromp, Faraday Discuss. 2008, 138,
287.
[94] T. Brgi, J. Catal. 2005, 229, 55; T. Brgi, A. Baiker, Adv. Catal.
2006, 50, 227.
[95] A. M. Beale, A. M. J. van der Eerden, K. Kervinen, M. A.
Newton, B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Commun. 2005, 3015.
[96] A. Brckner, Chem. Commun. 2005, 1761; A. Brckner, E.
Kondratenko, Catal. Today 2006, 113, 16; A. Brckner, Adv.
Catal. 2007, 51, 265.
[97] A. M. Beale, A. M. J. van der Eerden, S. D. M. Jacques, O.
Leynaud, M. G. OBrien, F. Meneau, S. Nikitenko, W. Bras,
B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 12386; S.
Nikitenko, A. M. Beale, A. M. J. van der Eerden, S. D. M.
Jacques, O. Leynaud, M. G. OBrien, D. Detollenaere, R.
Kapteijn, B. M. Weckhuysen, W. Bras, J. Synchrotron Radiat.
2008, 15, 632; M. G. OBrien, A. M. Beale, S. D. M. Jacques,
B. M. Weckhuysen, Top. Catal. 2009, in press; M. G. OBrien,
A. M. Beale, S. D. M. Jacques, T. Buslaps, V. Honkimaki, B. M.
Weckhuysen, J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 4890.
[98] J. G. Mesu, A. M. J. van der Eerden, F. M. F. de Groot, B. M.
Weckhuysen, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 4042; J. G. Mesu,
A. M. Beale, F. M. F. de Groot, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Phys.
Chem. B 2006, 110, 17671.
[99] P. D. Majors, K. R. Minard, E. J. Ackerman, G. R. Holtom,
D. F. Hopkins, C. I. Parkinson, T. J. Weber, R. A. Wind, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. 2002, 73, 4329; R. A. Wind, K. R. Minard, G. R.
Holtom, P. D. Majors, E. J. Ackerman, S. D. Colson, D. G. Cory,
D. S. Daly, P. D. Ellis, N. F. Metting, C. I. Parkinson, J. M. Price,
X. W. Tang, J. Magn. Reson. 2000, 147, 371.
[100] A. Sartori, R. Gatz, F. Beck, A. Rigort, W. Baumeister, J. M.
Plitzko, J. Struct. Biol. 2007, 160, 135; H. Schwarz, B. Humbel in
Electron Microscopy: Methods and Protocols (Ed.: J. Kuo),
Humana Press, Totowa, 2007, p. 229; T. Takizawa, J. M.
Robinson, Methods Mol. Med. 2006, 121, 351.
[101] Y. Tian, D. Chassaing, A. G. Nasibulin, P. Ayala, H. Jiang, A. S.
Anisimov, E. I. Kauppinen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 7188.
[102] A. V. Agronskaia, J. A. Valentijn, L. F. van Driel, C. T. W. M.
Schneijdenberg, B. M. Humbel, P. M. P. van Bergen en Hene-
gouwen, A. J. Verkleij, A. J. Koster, H. C. Gerritsen, J. Struct.
Biol. 2008, 164, 183.
[103] D. J. Mller, Y. F. Dufrene, Nat. Nanotechnol. 2008, 3, 261.
[104] For example: G. Kaupp, Atomic Force Microscopy, Scanning
Near-Field Optical Microscopy and Nanoscratching, Springer,
Berlin, 2006; Handbook of Microscopy for Nanotechology
(Eds.: N. Yao, Z. L. Wang), Kluwer Academic Publishers,
Boston, 2005. The first idea to overcome the diffraction limit of
optical microscopy was introduced by Synge in 1928 and is
commonly known as the optical near-field concept. Optical
near field is defined as the region of space less than one
wavelength away from the light source, in which diffraction
does not occur. In this case, the resolution is only a function of
the size and the distance between the light source and the
sample. This idea to fabricate a light source much smaller than
the wavelength of light and to bring it very close to the object
only became reality in 1984 with the introduction of the first
near-field optical microscope.
[105] For example: M. L. Occelli, S. A. C. Gould, G. D. Stucky, Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 485; M. L. Occelli, J. P. Olivier, A.
Auroux, J. Catal. 2002, 209, 385; S. Sugiyama, S. Yamamoto, O.
Matsuoka, T. Honda, H. Nozoye, S. Qiu, J. Yu, O. Terasaki,
Surf. Sci. 1997, 377–379, 140; M. W. Anderson, T. Ohsuna, Y.
Sakamoto, Z. Liu, A. Carlsson, O. Terasaki, Chem. Commun.
2004, 907; L. I. Meza, M. W. Anderson, J. R. Agger, C. S.
Cundy, C. B. Chong, R. J. Blaisted, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129,
15192; R. Brent, M. W. Anderson, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120,
5407; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 5327.
[106] C. Fokas, V. Deckert, Appl. Spectrosc. 2002, 56, 192.
[107] B. Pettinger, G. Picardi, R. Schuster, G. Ertl, J. Electroanal.
Chem. 2003, 554–555, 293; B. Pettinger, G. Picardi, R. Schuster,
G. Ertl, Single Mol. 2002, 3, 285; A. Hartschuh, Angew. Chem.
2008, 120, 8298; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 8178; B.
Pettinger, B. Ren, G. Picardi, R. Schuster, G. Ertl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 2004, 92, 096101; T. Kodama, T. Umezawa, S. Watanabe,
H. Ohtani, J. Microsc. 2008, 229, 240.
[108] J. S. Samson, G. Wollny, E. Burndermann, A. Bergner, A.
Hecker, G. Schwaab, A. D. Wieck, M. Havenith, Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 753; M. M. Qazilbash, M. Brehm, B. G.
Chae, P. C. Ho, G. O. Andreev, B. J. Kim, S. J. Yun, A. V.
Balatsky, M. B. Maple, F. Keilmann, H. T. Kim, D. N. Basov,
Science 2007, 318, 1750; K. Mueller, X. Yang, M. Paulite, Z.
Fakhraai, N. Gunari, G. C. Walker, Langmuir 2008, 24, 6946;
A. J. Huber, A. Ziegler, T. Kck, R. Hillenbrand, Nat. Nano-
technol. 2009, 4, 153.
[109] A. J. Huber, F. Keilmann, J. Wittborn, J. Aizpurua, R. Hill-
enbrand, Nano Lett. 2008, 8, 3766; P. Planken, Nature 2008, 456,
454.
[110] I. I. Smolyaninov, C. C. Davis, ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 625.
[111] C. L. Degen, M. Poggio, H. J. Mamin, C. T. Rettner, D. Rugar,
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 2009, 106, 1313; P. C. Hammel, Nature,
2009, 458, 844.
Spatial Heterogeneities in Catalysis
Angewandte
Chemie
4943
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910 – 4943
 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.angewandte.org
