I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Chemical ReviewsVol 110/Issue 9Article Cite Share Jump to Expand REVIEWMay 20, 2010 Stabilization and Structure Calculations for Noncovalent Interactions in Extended Molecular Systems Based on Wave Function and Density Functional Theories Kevin E. RileyMichal PitokPetr JurekaPavel Hobza* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2010 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Basis Sets Colloids Interaction Energies Noncovalent Interactions 1 Introduction More than 20 years ago, we published in Chemical Reviews a paper entitled Intermolecular Interactions between Medium-Sized Systems. Nonempirical and Empirical Calculations of Interaction Energy: Successes and Failures. (1) The situation in calculations of noncovalent interactions at that time can be best characterized by the question we posed at the very beginning of the review: Can quantum chemistry describe vdW (van der Waals; today we call it noncovalent) interactions as successfully as covalent interactions? Our answer then was unambiguously yes. We had good reason for an optimistic yes since we presented the first coupled-cluster calculations including triple excitations for a (at that time) large complexthe water dimer. (2) We stressed the importance of the triple excitations for noncovalent interactions, and in the section called Prospects, we wrote that significant progress is highly desirable with beyond-SCF methods, where new, more accurate and efficient procedures are developed. In this respect we were right, and in the past 20 years, we have witnessed an enormous growth of interest in the fast and accurate calculation of intermolecular interactions. What is the reason for such an interest, or more generally, why are noncovalent interactions so relevant in modern research? Is it the mere existence of noncovalent complexes in the gas and liquid phases? Certainly not. The answer should be sought in the role that noncovalent interactions are playing in both bio- and nanostructures.
All life on our earth can be viewed as an application of supramolecular chemistry with noncovalent interactions playing a central role. Biomacromolecules, DNA, RNA, and proteins, all play a dominant role in our life. The function of these biomacromolecules is to a large extent determined by their structures, so forming a deep understanding of the nature of the stabilization of these systems is thus of key importance. For example, the double-helical structure of DNA is clearly linked with its functionthe storage and transfer of genetic information. The 3D structure of DNA (and also of other biomacromolecules such as proteins, etc.) results from a delicate balance between various types of noncovalent interactions acting between biomolecular building blocks and also between these blocks and the surrounding environment. The balance mentioned is also responsible for what is probably the most important biological processmolecular recognition, which is the fascinating process by which one system recognizes a second one over a very long distance, and undoubtedly directs it to form an active complex. Finally, an interaction of a ligand with a protein target, which is fully determined by various types of noncovalent interactions and solvation/desolvation processes, represents the key step in in silico drug design, which will undoubtedly play a more and more important role in the development of new potent drugs.
Among the most important noncovalent interaction types are hydrogen bonding (H-bonding) and stacking; these motifs are found not only in nucleic acids and proteins, but also in complexes of nucleic acids and proteins with ligands. For a long time it was believed that H-bonding was much stronger than stacking, and consequently, it was expected that H-bonding was the key player in determining biomolecular structure. At the time, the role of stacking was, in fact, not completely clear. Accurate quantum mechanical (QM) calculations performed in the past few years in our laboratory (3, 4) have, surprisingly, shown that the stabilization of both motifs can in fact be comparable. Such calculations have been, however, difficult, which is mainly due to the very different origins of each stabilization motif. While the H-bond forms due to electrostatic interactions and charge transfer, stacking is almost exclusively governed by the London dispersion energy. Accurate evaluation of the former energy contribution is straightforward, and almost any QM level describes H-bonding properly. It is an entirely different situation for the stacking interactions, where the most accurate QM calculations covering a large portion of the correlation energy combined with extended AO basis sets are required. To properly qualitatively and quantitatively describe the stabilization of biomolecular building blocks, high accuracy is required. In our laboratory, and in others, it was shown that chemical accuracy (1 kcal/mol) can be obtained by performing the coupled-cluster calculation covering the single and double electron excitations iteratively and the triple electron excitations perturbatively (CCSD(T)) in combination with the complete basis set (CBS) limit extrapolations. The resulting CCSD(T)/CBS scheme provides accurate stabilization energies (as well as other properties) for various types of biomolecular motifs including H-bonding and improper blue-shifting H-bonding, stacking, electrostatic interactions, charge transfer, dihydrogen bonding, and halogen bonding.
CCSD(T)/CBS calculations thus provide benchmark data that can be used not only for investigating the nature of noncovalent interactions in various binding motifs but also for testing and/or parametrizing other, more computationally economical, ab initio nonempirical QM wave function and density functional theories (WFT and DFT) as well as semiempirical QM methods and empirical potentials (EPs). The accuracy of the CCSD(T) procedure for nanostructures and their models can be, however, questioned since upon delocalization of the systems (e.g., graphene) the HOMOLUMO gap decreases and the use of perturbation methods (for evaluation of triple excitations) is no longer justified. (5) For the same reason the use of the MllerPlesset perturbation technique (e.g., MP2) can also be limited.
The very unique position of the CCSD(T)/CBS technique follows from the fact that it is the only theoretical ab initio procedure (in the sense that no empirical data are utilized) that provides accurate stabilization energies for various types of noncovalent complexes. All other WFT, DFT, and EP procedures contain one or more parameters that were most likely fitted toward the CCSD(T)/CBS or experimental data. It is true that standard WFT methods such as MPn or CCSD do not contain any parameters, but their performance for noncovalent interactions is limited. For example, the most popular among these methods, the second-order MllerPlesset perturbation theory, strongly overestimates the dispersion energy (see below), which causes difficulties in the description of dispersion-bound complexes. This problem can be reduced either by separate scaling of spin components or by the combination of MP2 with higher terms in the perturbation expansion (e.g., MP3). Both procedures mentioned (for references and details see below) should, however, include an empirical parameter.
The development of faster QM procedures is highly important since we need to describe larger and larger fragments of bio- and nanostructures as accurately as possible. It is especially clear that interactions within these systems are governed not only by classical short- and long-range interactions, which can be basically described by EPs, but also by effects that are clearly of quantum origin, for which EP-based methods fail. Among quantum effects that must be considered, probably the most important are charge-transfer phenomena, which are especially significant in biological processes with the participation of metals or electron donor and electron acceptor subsystems. Fast and accurate QM methods are also needed in molecular dynamic simulations where the description of quantum effects plays a decisive role. The development of such methods is difficult since here the CPU time cannot be much higher than that required by EP methods.
The literature on noncovalent interactions is broad, and many useful reviews have originated from our laboratory (1, 6-14) and in others. (15-19) 2 Scope of the Review In the past 10 years, an unusually large number of new QM approaches have emerged, in both the WFT and DFT families (references will be given in the subsequent paragraphs). The MP2 procedure, when combined with an extended AO basis set (or even when performed at the CBS limit), basically provides reliable data for H-bonding, but generally overestimates the stacking interactions (by as much as several kilocalories per mole). The solution to this problem came from the introduction of the spin component scaling method based on the MP2 procedure (SCS-MP2). The method solved the overestimation of MP2 for stacking but failed for the description of H-bonding, which triggered the introduction of several methods based on SCS-MP2, such as SCS(MI)-MP2, SOS-MP2, SOS(MI)-MP2, SSS(MI)-MP2, and SCSN-MP2. The above-mentioned problems of the MP2 procedure were successfully removed by passing to MP3, and the technique called scaled MP3 (or simply MP2.5) provides very promising results for various types of noncovalent complexes. It is true that MP2.5 requires about 1 order of CPU time more than the MP2 procedure, but it is still much faster than CCSD(T).
The main problem with DFT methods, which are computationally very efficient, is the fact that they do not describe the dispersion energy. It was proved rigorously that local as well as semilocal DFT techniques do not cover the dispersion. (20) This problem has been addressed along different lines; among the simplest of these is a very efficient procedure in which the dispersion energy is added using the traditional C6/R6 term. A very similar approach was used in the second half of the past century by Scoles and Ahlrichs and also by one of us (P.H.) to remove the analogous problems of the HartreeFock method (for which the dispersion energy is completely missing). The approach was first applied to the tight-binding DFT procedure and later to other standard DFT procedures. During the period mentioned, the years-long pursuit for DFT methods applicable to noncovalent complexes peaked with the M06 and M08 suites of functionals and also with the first viable truly nonlocal functional. All these advancements were fueled by a growing appreciation of the importance of London dispersion for virtually all applications, mainly in biology and nanostructures.
The availability of accurate reference data contributed a great deal to this development. Substantial improvements have lately been achieved in alternative paradigms for accurate calculations not requiring the introduction of any empirical parameter, such as symmetry-adapted perturbation theory (SAPT), and especially its DFT approximation called DFT-SAPT or SAPT/DFT, and the diffusion quantum Monte Carlo (DQMC) procedure. Agreement of their results with the CCSD(T)/CBS calculations has established a consensus about the quality of the reference data (and also about the quality of both methods mentioned) and put accuracy assessment on firm ground. The SAPT procedure, when based on correlated descriptions of subsystems, provides highly accurate results, and the method is a genuine ab initio method. The procedure is, however, computationally expensive, which prevents its use for larger complexes. The DFT-SAPT technique allows for the treatment of much larger complexes, but only at the price of adding empirical parameters to the calculations.
In the current review we encompass the recent developments in this field, facilitate orientation among the quickly appearing treatments, and emphasize the vital importance of accurate reference calculations. In the past five years we have published about 100 papers covering the subject of the current review, and these papers, together with literature references, will make the base of the present review. We will concentrate mainly on the performance of various theoretical procedures in the computation of stabilization energies, but the evaluation of optimized geometries will also be mentioned (though to a lesser extent).
Due to the unfavorable scaling of the CCSD(T) method (roughly with the seventh power of the system size), its applicability is limited to complexes with no more than about 50 atoms. It is thus highly topical to investigate the performance of other WFT procedures that can be applied for larger complexes. As mentioned above, all of these procedures contain empirical parameters that have been fitted, for the most part, to the CCSD(T)/CBS benchmark data. The most widely used method, without doubt, is MP2, which covers the essential portion of the correlation energy and is still feasible even for complexes having more than 100 atoms. The main drawbacks of this method are the heavy dependence on the basis set as well as on the geometry of the complex. The limitations of the method will be discussed together with suggestions about how to overcome them. Here, several methods based on separate scaling of parallel and antiparallel spin contributions (SCS-MP2, SCS-CCSD) will be mentioned, and their advantages and disadvantages will be mentioned and demonstrated for selected examples. Some attention will also be paid to the scaled MP3 method, which is almost parameter-free (in its simplest version, it is an arithmetic mean of the MP2 and MP3 stabilization energies) and provides excellent stabilization energies for various types of noncovalent complexes. Despite the fact that scaled MP3 and variants of SCS-MP2 are much faster than CCSD(T), their use for extended complexes is still limited. Furthermore, it must be mentioned that both these techniques are not based on solid theoretical grounds. The next step is thus the utilization of DFT methods.
The section on DFT should start with a brief discussion of the limitations of standard DFT functionals in the description of noncovalent interactions. Successes and failures of DFT in studies of H-bonded and stacked structures will be demonstrated on DNA base pairs and amino acid pairs. The hereditary sin of DFT, a failure to describe the dispersion energy, can be overcome in several different ways, which will be discussed at the beginning of the DFT paragraph. Among various techniques, two approaches, the addition of an empirical dispersion energy term combined with parametrization of the damping function and the de novo parametrization of the DFT functional, became by far the most successful and will be discussed in detail. Attention will be paid not only to stabilization energies but also to structures and geometries. DFT calculations are much faster than correlated WFT calculations and do not depend so heavily on the basis set size; furthermore, additional speedups can be gained by using GGA functionals instead of hybrid ones. A very promising approach entails a combination of DFT-D (dispersion energy corrected) with a GGA functional and a medium basis set. This procedure is fast and can even be used in on-the-fly ab initio (DFT-D) molecular dynamics simulations. This technique is a very promising tool for studies of the dynamic properties of small and medium noncovalent complexes.
Generally, semiempirical QM procedures are known not to be suitable for calculations on noncovalent interactions, with the main problem being, again, the deficiency in the description of the dispersion energy. However, if this energy term is added (in a way similar to that in DFT-D), the semiempirical QM procedures can be successfully used even in the realms of noncovalent interactions. The main attention will be paid to the PM6 method, belonging to the family of semiempirical NDDO methods; the PM6 method represents the most recent parametrization of the well-known series of PMx methods. The PM6 method, upon addition of the empirical dispersion energy and H-bonding terms (PM6-DH), provides surprisingly accurate results for various types of noncovalent complexes and, due to its favorable scaling (approaching linear, for instance, for peptides), can be used for complexes with several thousand atoms. An important advantage of the latter method is that it has been parametrized for the entire periodic table. 3 Wave Function Theory
3.1 CCSD(T) in the Complete Basis Set Limit: Golden Standard in Calculation of Noncovalent Interactions
Coupled-cluster (CC) theory was introduced into quantum chemistry more than 40 years ago. (21-23) The concept of CC theory relies on the exponential formulation of the wave operator and its expansion into clusters of excitation operators. As a consequence, CC methods are size-extensive (the energy scales properly with the size of a system) and the convergence of the CC energy toward the full configuration interaction (FCI) value is faster compared to that of other methods with the same asymptotic scaling with respect to system size. One of the valuable features of CC theory is that it is systematically improvable upon inclusion of a higher excitation operator, (23) providing that an adequate AO basis set for description of the system is applied, typically, but not strictly: The CCSD(T) method, i.e., iterative inclusion of the single and double (and higher disconnected linked terms such as quadruple, hextuple, etc., resulting from the exponential ansatz) excitations with perturbative account for the effect of triple excitations in energy, is especially successful for ground-state energies and the calculation of properties for systems with single-reference character (which is generally the case in the world of noncovalent interactions). As demonstrated in several works, among all CC approximations, CCSD(T) dauntlessly stands as the golden-standard method due to its outstanding accuracy for the computational cost ratio (please see ref 24 and references therein).
3.1.1 Computational Demands and Applicability
Before analysis of the accuracy of the CCSD(T) method on calculations of noncovalent interactions, let us focus first on its applicability. Inclusion of single and double excitations in the CC scheme, i.e., CCSD, leads to equations with numerous terms (or diagrams), from which the most computationally demanding scale as No2Nv4 and No3Nv3, where No stands for the number of correlated occupied and Nv the number of active virtual (unoccupied or external) orbitals. The overall scaling of a CCSD iteration is usually dominated by one of these terms, depending on the No/Nv ratio. If no linear dependences within the underlying AO basis sets are removed, this ratio is defined by the dimension of the basis set, since the virtual orbitals are only a byproduct of the MO-LCAO-HF (molecular orbital linear combination of atomic orbitals HartreeFock) procedure, with the only condition being orthogonality to the space of occupied orbitals. The scaling of the perturbative triples calculation is by an order of magnitude steeper, i.e., No3Nv4, which represents the bottleneck of CCSD(T) calculations on larger systems.
The N7 scaling of the floating-point operations in the CCSD(T) method can be quite efficiently alleviated nowadays (but certainly not overcome) by massive parallelization, but there are other bottlenecks that have been recognized as being important only quite recently. (25-29) The bottleneck of storage requirements resulting from storage of N4 two-electron integrals was addressed 17 years ago by introducing the so-called integral-direct CC algorithms, (30) Cholesky decomposition, (31, 32) and more recently DF/RI (density fitting/resolution-of-the-identity) of two-electron integrals. (33, 34) However, the important limitations to be removed are the ones affecting the computer memory. Keeping, for instance, T2 double excitations (No2Nv2 sized array) in-core was a common praxis in standard CCSD(T) implementations. Storing of this small array can easily exceed the capacity of local memory on standard computers (typically 18 GB per CPU). This bottleneck has been overcome in all of the modern CCSD(T) implementations cited above in various ways; perhaps the ACES3 (26) program suite serves as the best example. In this code all types of array indices, i.e., AOs, occupied and virtual, can be, if needed, segmented to suit the memory available. Segmentation brings in certain overhead in I/O, data transfer, and arithmetic operations compared to traditional algorithms, but the scaling of this overhead with system size is typically lower than the actual work to be done in the entire algorithm by 12 orders of magnitude.
To clearly circumscribe the area of applicability of the CCSD(T) approach in terms of the size of the calculated system is difficult. The potential of current software implementations and the power of supercomputers have certainly not been fully exploited yet. The largest rigorous CCSD(T) calculations published so far have dealt with systems of about 70 atoms, such as the coronene dimer (5) and a guaninecytosine step from DNA. (35)
3.1.2 Accuracy of Supermolecular CCSD(T)
In terms of perturbation theory of electron correlation, the CCSD(T) method is accurate to the fourth order in energy (with certain terms being summed up to the infinite order). Considering CCSD(T) as a benchmark method for molecules of about 30 (second-row and hydrogen) atoms, which nowadays can be calculated close to the CBS limit, we can still ask ourselves how good these benchmarks really are? As pointed out in several papers, interaction energies calculated at the CCSD(T)/CBS level are of, so-called, chemical accuracy (errors of less than 1 kcal/mol), but can be deficient for subchemical accuracy (errors of less than 0.1 kcal/mol) in certain cases. (36-38) Typically, the largest errors can be attributed to the incompleteness of the AO basis set and the resulting basis set superposition error (BSSE). This might be a problem for, say, real-life systems, where calculations even close to the CBS limit are not tractable due to their size. The evaluation of the BSSE error for an arbitrary AO basis set is obviously not possible; however, bracketing of the CBS value based on BSSE-corrected and -uncorrected interaction energies provides a reasonable estimate of the BSSE in regions reasonably close to the CBS value. The basis set convergence of CCSD(T) will be discussed in more detail in section 3.1.3.
Let us focus on the accuracy of the CCSD(T) supermolecular interaction energies in terms of the approximations made at the CC level. As stated in ref 37, certain fifth-order terms are only partially covered at the supermolecular CCSD(T) (as well as by the fully iterative CCSDT) level, and either perturbative or iterative inclusion of connected quadruple excitations is required to introduce these terms. Quantitative assessment of these effects is hindered by insufficient basis set saturation, since higher order correlation contributions tend to compensate for the one-particle basis incompleteness. Thus, any conclusion drawn from CC calculation including connected quadruple excitations (or higher) in unsaturated basis sets can be only semiquantitative. From the very few publications on this topic, the following conclusion can be drawn: The error from the perturbative approximation of the triple excitation, i.e., CCSDT vs CCSD(T), amounts to about 1% of the ΔCCSD(T) (i.e., CCSD(T)  MP2; see below) term for ππ stacked complexes, being repulsive. For H-bonded complexes this error can account for as much as 1030% of the ΔCCSDT term, being repulsive as well. (39) Nevertheless, this alarmingly large error, on a percentile scale, affects the total interaction energy only marginally, since MP2 already describes H-bonding fairly well. The reason for such a discrepancy between CCSD(T) and CCSDT probably originates in the coupling of T3 with mono- and biexcitation amplitudes in the CCSDT scheme, thus affecting the dipole moment, as well as the higher electric moments of monomers. This significantly influences the intramonomer correlated electrostatic and deformation components of the interaction energy, which are dominant in H-bonding interactions. The error attributable to neglect of the connected quadruple excitations for ππ stacking complexes is about 10% of the (T) contribution, (40, 41) being repulsive, or about 5%, according to our CCSD(TQf)/6-31G*(0.25) calculations of several conformers of the benzene dimer, (42) being repulsive as well.
To summarize the error evaluation, fortuitously enough, the CCSD(T) method provides the upper bound for the stabilization energies due to the opposing signs of the neglected higher order correlation terms described above. (40) The overall errors are typically expected to be less than 10% in the higher order correlation term (ΔCCSD(T)) or less than 3% in the total interaction energy (disregarding a few pathological complexes, such as rare-gas dimers or small diatomic dimers).
A last note should be made on the effect of core correlation, which was shown to be quite important for certain properties, such as atomization energies, excitation energies, and NMR shifts. There has not been very much attention paid to its magnitude in calculations of noncovalent interactions. Only a few in-depth works on this topic (mostly on rare-gas dimers) can be found. (43-45) The effects of core correlation on H-bonding were studied by Boese et al., (46) reporting that these effects can be completely neglected, being on the order of a few hundredths of a kilocalorie per mole (even for complexes containing the chlorine atom). As an illustration, frozen-core (1s orbitals of C, N, and O atoms inactive) and all-electron MP2 and CCSD(T) calculations of interaction energies in the H-bonding and stacking conformations of the uracil dimer were carried out with the aug-cc-pVDZ and aug-cc-pCVDZ (47) basis sets. (48) No additional stabilization at the MP2 level and only 0.02 kcal/mol additional stabilization at the CCSD(T) level were found for the H-bonded structure, while an additional stabilization of 0.02 kcal/mol at the MP2 level and 0.01 kcal/mol destabilization, due to higher order correlation, at the CCSD(T) level were found for the stacked structure. It can be expected that, for biologically relevant noncovalent complexes, core-correlation effects are beyond, or at, the order of magnitude of subchemical accuracy.
3.1.3 Basis Set Convergence of the CCSD(T) Interaction Energy
As already mentioned, errors resulting from the incompleteness of the AO basis set are typically the most significant ones. However, if the CCSD(T) interaction energy is decomposed into SCF, MP2, and higher order correlation corrections (1) where ΔE(ΔCCSD(T)) will be, for the sake of simplicity, further referred to as ΔCCSD(T). Different rates of convergence toward the CBS of these components can be recognized. The SCF interaction energy is the fastest converging of these components, and is ussually already saturated in medium-sized, sufficiently diffuse basis sets, e.g., aug-cc-pVTZ. If the counterpoise correction for BSSE is applied, results close to the CBS can be obtained with even smaller basis sets, such as aug-cc-pVDZ. Unlike the SCF component, the MP2 correlation contribution, clearly dominant in the CCSD(T) correlation energy expansion, is the slowest converging one. For stacked dimers of about 3040 atoms, e.g., DNA base pairs, even basis sets as large as aug-cc-pVQZ (the use of which results in calculations with more than 2000 basis functions) still can lead to deviations of several kilocalories per mole from the CBS. A significant convergence speedup toward the CBS can be achieved by applying basis set extrapolations of energies obtained in two or more AO basis sets, by using either the optimized virtual orbital space (OVOS) or frozen natural orbital (FNO) method or by introducing explicit correlation via R12/F12 operators. All of these approaches are discussed in section 3.4.
The basis set convergence of the ΔCCSD(T) term, which is investigated in several publications, (46, 49-51) deserves special attention. Since calculating this term is the most computationally demanding part of obtaining estimated CCSD(T)/CBS results, major savings can be achieved by optimizing the basis set selection for this term. As shown by Jureka and Hobza for several H-bonded and ππ stacked complexes, the total MP2 and CCSD(T) interaction energies (or their respective correlation contributions) converge roughly at the same rate, while the difference between the two interaction energies, i.e., ΔCCSD(T), typically converges much faster. (49) Though this assertion generally seems to be true, it is frequently used despite a lack of extensive validation. Recently cases have been reported in which ΔCCSD(T) converges slowly, such as in the case of the benzene···Na+ complex, where the ΔCCSD(T) term is 0.13 kcal/mol in aug-cc-pVDZ (aDZ) and 1.16 kcal/mol in aug-cc-pVTZ (aTZ). (50) Sometimes the use of a small basis set leads to a qualitatively wrong description, such as in the case of the benzene···water complex, 0.04 kcal/mol in aDZ and 0.31 kcal/mol in aTZ. (50) Our recent series of benchmark calculations on several stacked ππ systems revealed that the use of small basis sets (e.g., 6-31G*(0.25) or similar ones) can lead to an underestimation of the ΔCCSD(T) term by no more than 1020% and the use of aug-cc-pVTZ basis set leads to 13% agreement with the CBS value. (48, 52) Further savings can be achieved by not adding the diffuse functions on hydrogen atoms, leading to the so-called heavy augmented correlation-consistent basis sets (haug-cc-pVxZ; x = D, T, Q), as proposed by Elsohly et al. (53) and Sherrill et al., (51) but used earlier in similar variants by other groups as well. The performance of these basis sets, not only in terms of ΔCCSD(T), but also at the MP2 level, is excellent, leading to errors that are typically about a few hundredths of a kilocalorie per mole, compared to those calculated using diffuse functions on hydrogen atoms. These differences with respect to the full aug-cc-pVxZ basis sets are almost completely diminished at the extrapolated level (see further text).
The fast rate of convergence of the ΔCCSD(T) term is the result of error compensation between the convergence of ΔCCSD and (T). As an example, the differences in ΔCCSD and (T) from aDZ to aTZ for the stacked uracil dimer are about 0.2 and 0.15 kcal/mol, respectively, while the difference in ΔCCSD(T) is only 0.03 kcal/mol. (48) Similarly, for the methyladenine···methylthymine complex, the differences in ΔCCSD and (T) for the same basis sets are 0.45 and 0.36 kcal/mol, respectively, while the change of ΔCCSD(T) is only 0.09 kcal/mol. (52) Since the signs of the ΔCCSD and (T) corrections are conserved for all complexes known to us (as discussed in section 3.1.2), at least some compensation of errors between these terms for various basis sets and complexes can be expected.
It is important to realize that, at subchemical accuracy, correlation effects beyond those described by CCSD(T) and errors resulting from other approximations utilized within the CC approach might be of similar magnitude. It is thus meaningless to improve errors associated with either basis set incompleteness or higher order correlation without addressing the other problem as well. The conclusions in this section were drawn mostly from calculations on molecules with tens of atoms (benzene dimer, uracil dimer, etc.), where the basis set saturation is enhanced by overlap of basis functions of neighboring atoms. Slower rates of convergence toward the CBS can be expected in rare-gas dimers, or rather small molecules, and inclusion of basis functions with higher angular momenta might be necessary. The situation for larger (about 100 atoms or more) compact complexes has not, as of yet, been sufficiently described.
The importance of the ΔCCSD(T) term, as discussed in the previous paragraph, is different for H-bonded, ππ stacked, and other types of noncovalent interactions. Basis set saturation in calculations of the ΔCCSD(T) term for systems dominated by dispersion interactions is important mostly for quantitative agreement, while for the H-bonded complexes or, in general, for complexes clearly dominated by electrostatic interactions (e.g., the Na+···water complex), neglect of ΔCCSD(T) can sometimes lead to a more balanced treatment. (50)
3.1.4 Approximate CCSD(T) Schemes
To date the majority of efforts to reduce the scaling of the correlated WFT calculations have been invested in methods with lower order scaling than CCSD(T), mostly on HF and MP2 (see further text). Still, attempts to exploit the inherent short-range nature of electronelectron correlation in CC theory have been pursued by Werner and co-workers, (54-57) Dolg and co-workers, (58-60) Auer and Noojien, (61) Scuseria and Ayala, (62) Bartlett and co-workers, (63-65) Head-Gordon and co-workers, (66-68) and others. (69-73) Though some of these approaches have been quite successful, judging by their abilities to reproduce absolute correlation energies, reaction energies, or conformation energies, compared to their corresponding canonical calculations, much less is known about the accuracies of these methods for calculations on noncovalent interactions. The explicit CC treatment of only strictly spatially close localized orbitals (or domains, fragments, etc.) seems to lead to inaccuracies in descriptions of such subtle effects as the dispersion energy. Surprisingly, as pointed out by Hughes et al. and Maslen et al., (65, 66) the more computationally demanding connected triple excitation tends to be even less local than the double excitation. Currently, two routes to linear scaling seem to be possible, one advocated by Werner and co-workers and by Dolg and co-workers (see references above), which is simply to treat only the strongly interacting region explicitly, and the other suggested by Hughes et al., which is to calculate dispersion coefficients locally and use them to construct the intermolecular interaction potential. (65) The first of these routes clearly has the capability to converge to a linear-scaling regime, but the dimension of explicitly treated regions (basically all intermolecular orbital pairs of interacting fragments) might be computationally prohibitive. (74, 75) Additionally, in the incremental scheme of Dolg and co-workers, control over the accuracy appears to be an appealing feature. One of the positive aspects of using local correlation approaches is a decrease in the effects of basis set superposition error, both intermolecular (76, 77) and intramolecular. (78, 79) In the approach suggested by Hughes et al., a rigorous ab initio quantum chemical treatment would have to be sacrificed. (65) Rather encouraging results have come from the combination of the localized orbitals and explicit correlation (see further text) approaches by Werner, (54, 80) where the authors demonstrate an enhancement of accuracy via the symbiosis of these two approaches, rather than an accumulation of errors.
A different route to approximated coupled-cluster methods for large systems is represented by the fragment molecular orbital (FMO) (71) based CCSD(T) and divide-and-conquer (DC) (81) based CCSD methods. Common to these (and other related) approaches is the fact that it is unnecessary to use localized orbitals. Near linear scaling is achieved by either explicit calculation of only the (capped or isolated) monomer fragments and their respective dimers and trimers in the electrostatic field of the whole system (FMO) or by assembling the total one-electron density, which is calculated locally (DC). Judging according to a rather limited number of applications that have been published (the closest related to noncovalent interactions being calculations of the relative stability of various complexes), these method are capable of integrating the coupled-cluster concept into calculations of hundreds of atoms with errors similar to those of local CC methods.
3.2 MP2 in the Complete Basis Set
3.2.1 Computational Demands and Applicability
Supermolecular second-order MllerPlesset perturbation theory (MP2) has for a long time been, and still is, one of the most frequently applied WFT methods for calculations on noncovalent interactions. The reason for its relative popularity compared to other correlated methods results from its low computational cost and especially its high performance/cost ratio. Owing to the, now routinely used, density-fitting procedure (82-87) (DF, also called the resolution-of-the-identity, RI) or the Cholesky decomposition (CD) of the two-electron integrals, (88-93) MP2 can be applied to molecules with tens of (second-row and hydrogen) atoms in large basis sets (augmented triple-ζ or better) or up to hundreds of atoms in small basis sets (Poples 6-31G*, for example). In these applications MP2 is often the least expensive step, with the preceding HF (SCF) step being more costly, even though the asymptotic scaling of MP2 with the system size is higher by an order of magnitude.
Being the crudest approximation to the electron correlation problem, MP2 has its limitations in accuracy, which have now been quite well mapped after numerous benchmark studies, and the origins of these limitations are now, to a large extent, understood. (94-98) A notorious example of MP2s failure is the strong overestimation of ππ stacking interactions in complexes, such as the benzene dimer (overestimation by almost 80% in the parallel-displaced conformation). (99-102) Deeper insight into the origins of this behavior can be acquired from analysis using the perturbation theory of molecular interactions (see, for instance, the review paper of Chaasiski and Szczniak (103)). Among all the contributions obtained at the supermolecular MP2 level (second-order electrostatic, dispersion, deformation, and exchange correlation), it is the dispersion contribution that is approximated with the least accuracy for these problematic complexes. The so-called uncoupled HartreeFock (UCHF) dispersion energy contained at the supermolecular MP2 level completely lacks the intramonomer correlation correction for these systems, thus overestimating binding energies by as much as 20%. (97, 98) Interaction energy components other than dispersion are satisfactorily described at the MP2 level, provided that the description of the electric properties of the monomers is also reasonable. Thus, for highly correlated systems (especially nonpolar ones with delocalized π-electrons) MP2 can be expected to perform poorly.
Another major drawback of the MP2 method is its strong basis set dependence, as discussed in section 3.1.3. For the class of strongly correlated, dispersion-dominated systems there is surprisingly close agreement of the MP2 results with benchmark data, provided that MP2 is used along with small basis sets (for instance, 6-31G*(0.25) and aug-cc-pVDZ) or with basis sets lacking diffuse functions (for instance, cc-pVTZ). (104) This is, however, a consequence of error compensation involving overestimation due to the inaccurate UCHF dispersion description and underestimation attributable to deficient basis sets. Unfortunately, the high accuracy of this error compensation cannot generally be relied upon. The convergence of MP2 toward the CBS limit, either by extrapolation or by introducing explicit correlation, is discussed in section 3.4.
3.2.2 Approximate MP2 Schemes
As stated above, the implementation of the DF/CD approaches represents a major breakthrough in the applicability of the MP2 method for treating medium to large systems. Unlike other approximations to be discussed, DF and CD have worked their way to becoming true black-box approximations, and are even accurate enough for benchmark quality applications. (51, 85, 105-107) Obviously, to really profit from the speedup of DF/CD-MP2, two-electron integral decomposition, typically leading to a 1 order of magnitude speedup in MP2, must be applied at the HF step. For noncovalent complexes with sizes similar to those found within the S22 or JSCH2005 databases (see below), errors are generally no higher than a few hundredths of a kilocalories per mole. (51, 106) In the case of DF, accuracies depend on the quality of the underlying (auxiliary) density fitting basis set. For the CD-based approaches, the quality of results is fully under control via the CD threshold, for complexes being of DF accuracy in the range of 104 to105 au. (42, 48, 52) Additional speedup of MP2 calculations can be achieved by employing the energy denominator decomposition, via either Laplace transform (108-110) or CD, (31, 111) again with controlled accuracy.The application of MP2 to large-scale calculation of interaction energies, with additional approximations, can be approached by several routes. Despite the fundamental limitations of spatial restrictions on excitations within the localized orbital approach, as discussed in section 3.1.4, the number of applications of LMP2 is increasing. With the combination of DF/RI/CD for two-electron integrals and energy denominator decomposition, these methods almost approach the computational efficiency of DFT methods; however, the drawbacks of the MP2 description are still retained. (110, 112) Even the partial use of electron correlation locality in the so-called triatomics-in-molecules MP2 method (TRIM-MP2), (113, 114) in combination with DF, leads to a very computationally efficient, though not linear scaling, approach, with several advantages over LMP2 methods, such as continuous potential energy surfaces (PESs), etc. Approximate MP2 approaches based on molecule/complex fragmentation appear to be applicable for some of the largest complexes that can be treated using any existing computational method. Furthermore, according to Gordon et al., the combination of FMO (or another fragmentation method, such as the systematic fragmentation method (SFM), (115) with the semiclassical effective fragment potential (EFT2; see below) retains 1 kcal/mol agreement with the full MP2 calculation for just a fraction of the computational cost. (116, 117)
3.2.3 Empirical Corrections to the MP2
3.2.3.1 Spin-Component-Scaled MP2 Methods
In the pioneering work by Grimme, (118) the idea was introduced of separately scaling the same (also referred to as the singlet or antiparallel) and opposite (or triplet or parallel) spin components of the correlation energy (also extendable to other WFT methods, if applicable) to enhance accuracy:(2) The theoretical reasoning for the various scalings of these quantities is based on the so-called deficient short-range (dynamical) correlation, which is increased by the pS parameter (pS being >1), and overestimation of the long-range (nondynamical) correlation, which is damped by the pT parameter (pT being <1). (119) The particular values of the scaling parameters in the original Grimme SCS-MP2 method were either deduced from theory, pS = 6/5, or fitted to a reference QCISD(T) data set of total correlation energies, reaction and atomization energies, etc., pT = 1/3.SCS-MP2 has proven to be quite an improvement over MP2 in most cases. Even though the noncovalent complexes were not considered in its development, SCS-MP2 turned out to be a step in the right direction for treating the outstanding problem of the MP2 overestimation of stacked ππ complexes. However, more detailed investigations of the performance of SCS-MP2 for a wider range of noncovalent complexes indicate that clear quantitative improvement over MP2 is obtained almost exclusively for (especially nonpolar or slightly polar) stacked ππ complexes. (74, 75, 120-124) Even for stacked DNA base pairs, the overall performance of MP2 is slightly better than that of SCS-MP2. (51, 74) A fortuitous compensation of errors upon neglect of CP corrections was reported by Antony and Grimme, which makes CP-uncorrected SCS-MP2 with basis sets of triple-ξ quality more accurate than MP2, due to error compensation. (120) Hill and Platts, (74) and a year later DiStasio and Head-Gordon, (122) came up with an idea to optimize the spin scaling coefficients against benchmark interaction energy data. Hills SCSN-MP2/aug-cc-pVTZ method, optimized for the best performance on DNA/RNA base pairs, utilizes only the same-spin component, pT (having a value of 1.76). A similar value was also obtained when an independent training set, S22, was used by DiStasio and Head-Gordon. In their SSS(MI)-MP2 method the parameters depend on the basis set being used, with a pT value of 2.54 for the (small) cc-pVDZ basis set, 1.90 for cc-pVTZ, and 1.75 for cc-pVQZ (the largest basis set considered). This last value is almost the same as the one used by Hill and Platts, since cc-pVQZ is of similar quality for noncovalent interactions compared to aug-cc-pVTZ. DiStasio and Head-Gordon also proposed the SCS(MI)-MP2 method, which uses both scaled spin components and yields the best performance for intermolecular interactions. The increase in accuracy seen with this variant of the spin-scaled MP2 method is significant, comparing it to both MP2 and the original SCS-MP2. For the S22 benchmark data set (see further text) the rmsd (root mean square deviation) of SCS(MI)-MP2/cc-pVTZ binding energies is 0.31 kcal/mol, while for MP2 and SCS-MP2 with the same basis set these values are 0.99 and 1.45 kcal/mol, respectively. Even more pronounced is the maximum error decrease from 2.45 kcal/mol (MP2) and 2.83 kcal/mol (SCS-MP2) to 0.70 kcal/mol for SCS(MI)-MP2 with the cc-pVTZ basis set. SCS(MI)-MP2 accuracies for H-bonded complexes are still not significantly better than those of MP2, but are clearly improved over those of SCS-MP2. The following question still remains: To what extent are these optimized spin-component scaling coefficients transferable among a wider range of interaction types and, especially, for increasing system sizes and larger numbers of interacting fragments? Bachorz et al. plotted the rms deviation of SCS-MP2 with respect to the reference CCSD(T) data versus the two scaling coefficients for several stacked and H-bonded complexes of 2-pyridone and n-fluorobenzene (n = 16). (121) They observed a very narrow range of variations of the spin-scaling coefficients (being close to those from SCSN-MP2), for which the rms values were within 1 kcal/mol, having very steep valley walls. King found, while investigating the PES of the ethylene dimer, that MP2 is superior to the original (CP corrected) SCS-MP2 method. (123) However, refitting spin-scaling coefficients for several important ethylene dimer configurations revealed an insensitivity of the parameters to the geometry of the complex (pS being between 1.25 and 1.30 and pT being between 0.42 and 0.61). The SCS-MP2 method, customized for this particular complex (including CP corrections), then clearly outperformed both MP2 and Grimmes original SCS-MP2.Attempts to reduce the computational scaling of spin-scaled MP2 methods by complete neglect of the same-spin part, leading to the so-called SOS-MP2 method (109, 125) and its variants, MOS-MP2 (126) and SOS(MI)-MP2, (122) inevitably lead to increases in errors that cannot be recovered by reparametrization. As demonstrated by Lochan et al. for rare-gas dimers, the same-spin component can sometimes be even larger than the opposite-spin one. (126) The MOS-MP2 variant proposed by Lochan et al. aims to remedy SOS-MP2s problem of wrong asymptotic scaling, where the value of the scaling parameter in the asymptotic limit should be 2 to recover the MP2 energy. This is achieved by introducing an interelectron distance-dependent function incorporating one empirical parameter, which in short-range regions (less than 2 Å) roughly recovers SOS-MP2 values, while recovering the correct asymptotics of MP2 in the long-range regions. Neglecting the same-spin component, along with the Laplace (109) or Cholesky (125) decomposition of the energy denominators, opens a possibility for the N4 factorization of SOS-MP2, which, considering its scaling, might still be an interesting tool for large-scale applications, although with considerably less accurate performance.Further increasing the number of fitting parameters to 4, as in the so-called dispersion-weighted MP2 (DW-MP2) proposed by Marchetti and Werner, (127) presents another route to improving the deficiency of Grimmes original SCS-MP2 method. The authors recognized that the ratio between the HF and the MP2-F12 interaction energies for different types of noncovalent complexes (such as dispersion-bound, H-bonded, etc.) reflects the nature of this interaction (HF being repulsive for dispersion-bound complexes, while attractive for electrostatics-dominated complexes). This ratio is further correlated via a function of two parameters to a weight factor mixing the uncorrected MP2 interaction energy (considered sufficiently accurate for the H-bonded complexes) with Grimmes SCS-MP2 one (considered sufficiently accurate for the dispersion-bound complexes). The two parameters entering the weight factor were optimized against the CCSD(T*)-F12 reference data for the S22 database, presented in the same paper. (128) As demonstrated by statistical analysis based on rms, MAD, and MAX, the DW-MP2-F12 method, used with the aug-cc-pVDZ basis set, is even slightly more accurate than the two-parameter-based SCS(MI)-MP2 method extrapolated from the cc-pVTZ to the cc-pVQZ basis set.
3.2.3.2 MP2 Schemes with Improved Description of the Dispersion Interaction
Recognizing the general feature of MP2, i.e., the overestimation of stacked ππ interaction and fairly good performance on H-bonded complexes, Cybulski and Lytle were led to deeper investigation of the reasons for such behavior. (97) Motivated by the excellent agreement of the DFT-SAPT results of Hesselmann et al. (129, 130) with benchmark CCSD(T) data for DNA base pairs, (131) the authors focused on the possibility to improve the MP2 description of the dispersion interaction. As realized earlier, (94-97) the MP2 supermolecular interaction energy contains the dispersion energy only at the uncoupled HF (UCHF) level, which differs from the coupled one by 1020%. (129) The idea of Cybulski and Lytle was to substitute this UCHF dispersion energy in the supermolecular MP2 interaction energy by (among several options) the scaled coupled HF (from time-dependent HF (TDHF) calculation) one:(3) The scaling factor was chosen to be the ratio between the C6 coefficients obtained using the CCSD(T) and TDHF methods. E(2)disp(M) from eq 3 can be taken from other methods as well, as shown in an even more elaborate work by Hesselmann. (98) In this work the author tested not only the scaled TDHF dispersion energy, but also the (unscaled) coupled dispersion energy from two time-dependent DFT (TDDFT) methods, i.e., LHF/xALDA (localized HF method by Della Sala and Grling) (132) combined with the exchange-correlation kernel from the adiabatic local density approximation (ALDA) in its exchange-only variant and PBE0AC/hybALDA (asymptotically corrected PBE0AC with the hybrid nonlocal exchange ALDA exchange-correlation kernel). As demonstrated on potential energy curves of rare-gas dimers and several H-bonded structures of the water dimer and hydrogen fluoride dimer, LHF/xALDA, though being an exchange-only approximation for calculation of the dispersion energy, outperforms all other approaches, leading to close agreement with CCSD(T) benchmark results. Further testing was performed by Pitok and Hesselmann (the method was, for simplicity, named MP2C, where the C stands for corrected), which confirmed the excellent accuracy also for more extended systems from the S22 data set and others. (133) Another important advantage of this method, compared to the (scaled) TDHF approach, is its N4 (N being the size of the monomer(s)) scaling, which leads to only marginal overhead to the underlying supermolecular MP2 calculation.
A different route to correcting the MP2 dispersion is followed by Tkatchenko et al.; (134) in this study the authors applied a methodology similar to that in empirical-dispersion-corrected DFT approaches (such as that of Grimme (135) or Jureka et al. (136)). An accurate interatomic potential is obtained by correcting the MP2 one via (4) where ΔC2j+6 are the differences between CMP22j+6 dispersion coefficients and their accurate reference values. F(R) is an exponential damping function damping the London dispersion expansion, which is equal to unity at DReq, where D is the distance damping parameter and Req is the van der Waals equilibrium distance. MP2 potentials corrected according to eq 4 represent a significant improvement with respect to the reference CCSD(T) potentials for several systems in terms of both equilibrium and stretched geometries.
3.3 Methods Complete to the Third Order of Perturbation Theory: From MP3 to CCSD
3.3.1 Computational Demands and Applicability
Computational methods correct through the third order of perturbation theory have been extensively applied to calculations of interaction energies, and their accuracies are more or less well characterized. These methods undoubtedly cover correlation effects more completely than MP2; however, their performance on certain types of noncovalent interactions (especially ππ stacking) is still unsatisfactory (see section 3.3.2). It is also important to note that, for calculation of many-body effects, at least third-order perturbation theory methods must be used to cover the nonadditive dispersion correction. Due to the N6 scaling for iterative (from L-CCD to CCSD) and noniterative (MP3) third-order methods with the system size, the area of applicability is significantly narrowed compared to that of MP2. Standard approximations used in MP2, such as DF or CD of two-electron integrals, can certainly be applied, but mainly to alleviate the storage bottleneck (four virtual orbital index integrals are required). Unfortunately, due to the coupling of biexcitation amplitudes (missing in MP2), no simplified, or more efficient, factorizations, such as in MP2, are possible. Still, applications of DF/CD-based MP3 on complexes of about 100 second-row elements and hydrogen (300 correlated electrons) and up to 2000 basis functions can nowadays be done routinely, mainly owing to very efficient parallelization. Similar efficiency can be obtained with iterative third-order approximate CEPA-like and CCSD methods, especially when exploiting locality and virtual-orbital space truncation schemes. (33) For complexes for which satisfactory performance of the third-order methods can be expected, more than an order of magnitude savings in computational times can be achieved compared to CCSD(T).
3.3.2 Accuracy of the Supermolecular Third-Order Methods
In terms of perturbation theory for molecular interactions, the supermolecular MP3 method provides higher order (intramolecular) correlation corrections to electrostatics, exchange, induction, and exchange-deformation terms than MP2, and generally also gives a better description of the problematic dispersion energy. The dispersion energy is covered at both the UCHF (εdisp(30)) level and the (in the case of two-body interactions, dominant) intramonomer correction to the second-order UCHF dispersion energy (εdisp(21)). More sophisticated third-order methods, such as CCSD and MP4(SDQ), cover dispersion even more completely via the second-order intramonomer correlation correction, εdisp(22), but without the effect of connected triple excitations, which is crucial for certain types of interactions, as discussed further below. For complexes in which electrostatic interactions are dominant (such as in H-bonding), complexes dominated by the dispersion energy not involving delocalized π-electrons, and complexes of strongly polarizable monomer(s), the performance of the third-order methods can be expected to be satisfactory. It is important to stress that the performance of all third-order methods, from MP3 to CCSD (through all approximations in the cluster expansion), is comparable, except for complexes where the electric properties (dipole moments, polarizabilities, etc.) of the monomers exhibit strong dependence on the level of intramolecular correlation. For the most problematic cases, such as ππ stacking interactions, all the third-order methods, unlike MP2, strongly underestimate the interaction. As an example, the interaction for the benzene dimer in its parallel-displaced conformation is, according to Tsuzuki et al., repulsive by 0.02 kcal/mol for MP3 and bound only by 0.05 kcal/mol for MP4(SDQ) and 0.02 kcal/mol for CCSD, as calculated using the aug(d)-6-311G* basis set, whereas the benchmark CCSD(T) interaction energy is 1.02 kcal/mol (MP4(SDTQ) being 1.69 kcal/mol). (15, 102, 137) Similarly, for the argon dimer using the aug-cc-pV6Z basis set, the well depth of the dissociation potential for MP3 and CCSD is 375.4 and 324.7 μEh, respectively, while the MP4 (including the triple excitations) and CCSD(T) well depths are 457.3 and 441.3 μEh, respectively (the MP2 well depth being overestimated, 515.4 μEh). (45) Depending on the electric properties of the monomers, the MP3 third-order correction can be attractive (though usually at the same time small for polar systems), but for less polar and especially dispersion-dominated complexes it is repulsive and in good agreement with MP4(SDQ) or CCSD corrections. The values for the latter corrections are repulsive for all complexes in equilibrium geometries investigated so far.
What is missing in the third-order methods is the fourth-order effect of the connected triples, either from MP4 or, preferably, calculated from the converged excitation amplitudes from the CCSD. (138) This correction is attractive for all complexes in equilibrium geometries investigated so far, and its magnitude depends on the character of the complex. The effect of triples can range from as much as 50% of the third-order correction (several kilocalories per mole) for the ππ stacked complexes to almost zero for electrostatics-dominated complexes, such as in typical H-bonding.
3.3.3 Empirical Third-Order Schemes
By analyzing the behavior of the third-order correction obtained at the supermolecular MP3 level, we can recognize typical patterns for various types of interactions. According to these observations, an approximate N6 scaling method for calculation of noncovalent interactions can be formulated. As already mentioned, electrostatics-dominated complexes such as H-bonded ones are already well described at the MP2 level. Further increasing the quality of the description of electron correlation by, for instance, going to the CCSD(T) method yields additional stabilization typically of a few percent. Even though MP3 is not the best suited method for these types of complexes (since the intramonomer correlation corrections to the electric properties of the monomer play a crucial role), due to the relatively small value of the third-order correction term, the overall accuracy is still a slight improvement over MP2.
The situation is quite different for the ππ stacking complexes, where both MP2 (overestimated) and MP3 (underestimated) deviate from accurate CCSD(T) results by almost the same amount, but in opposite directions (i.e., having opposing signs). (139) According to this empirical observation, and because the fourth-order effect of triples is always attractive and its value is roughly 50% of the MP3 third-order correction, we can propose the MP2.5 method. (139) MP2.5 corrects the MP2 interaction energy by a scaled (the scaling factor being 0.5) third-order correlation correction. Though this is purely an empirical approximation to the CCSD(T) interaction energy, its performance on various types of complexes has been recognized as being quite accurate. As for other empirical approaches, such as the SCS-MP2 method, the proper asymptotic scaling of both MP2 and MP3 is retained and the performance of MP2.5 is in principle never considerably worse than that of MP2, but can be significantly better. For complexes for which the third-order correction presents an important part of the interaction energy (in terms of percentagewise contributions), the accuracy-determining point is the selection of the scaling factor. The optimum value of the scaling parameter has been found to be between 0.4 and 0.6, depending mostly on the polarities of the monomers and, to some extent, on the underlying AO basis set. This offers the possibility to estimate the error bars for the MP2.5 method as being roughly 10% of the third-order correlation contribution. (52) Another advantage of using the scaled third-order contribution is that its basis set dependence is very similar to that of ΔCCSD(T), which allows us to use incremental schemes such as the ones used for estimated CCSD(T)/CBS values; see eq 1. (140) Analogous to the SCS-MP2 idea, the scaling of different spin energy components of the CCSD correlation energy was proposed by Takatani et al. (141) Using the same training set for optimization of the scaling parameter that was used by Grimme for SCS-MP2, (118) significant improvements in the accuracies of SCS-CCSD values (over those of CCSD), especially for noncovalent interactions, were achieved. Further testing of SCS-CCSD on cuts through the PES of several noncovalent dispersion-bound complexes shows excellent accuracy, with errors of less than 0.2 kcal/mol (in comparison with CCSD(T)/CBS results) for several configurations of the benzene dimer, whereas errors for the SCS-MP2 variants approach almost 0.5 (SCS(MI)-MP2, SCSN-MP2) to 1.0 (SCS-MP2) kcal/mol.
Further, broader assessments of the performance of the SCS-CCSD method revealed that there is still some space for improvents in its application for noncovalent interactions. Reparametrization of SCS-CCSD toward the best perfomance on the S22 test set was carried out in our laboratory. (142) This reparametrization is analogous to the one carried out for the SCS-MP2 method by Distasio et al., leading to the SCS(MI)-MP2 method. (122) An appreciable improvement in the mean unsigned (maximum) error compared to the orginal SCS-CCSD for the S22 set, from 0.21 (0.79) to 0.05 (0.10) kcal/mol, was obtained. Interestingly, a similar flip of values of the opposite- and same-spin scaling coefficients found in the case of SCS-MP2 (pS and pT being 1.33 and 0.33) to SCS(MI)-MP2 (pS and pT for cc-pV(TQ)Z being 0.40 and 1.29) was obtained. The new scaling factors for the, so-called, SCS(MI)-CCSD method (i.e., SCS-CCSD tailored toward the calculation of molecular interactions) were 1.11 (pS) and 1.28 (pT), i.e., in the swapped order compared to the pS and pT values of 1.27 and 1.13 in the original SCS-CCSD. The use of SCS- or SCS(MI)-CCSD is a very appealing option, but the iterative N6 scaling with system size (exactly the same as for the standard CCSD), storage of the biexcitation amplitudes, and far less efficient parallelization significantly narrow the applicability of this method compared to, for instance, MP2.5. An attractive feature of the SCS- and SCS(MI)-CCSD methods is the fact that they are not based on perturbation theory.
A new approximate general-purpose family of methods formally derived from the N6 coupled-pair approximation (CEPA/1) has recently been introduced by Neese and co-workers. (33, 143, 144) Combining several approximations, such as orbital localization and truncation of the external space of modified pair-natural orbitals (i.e., LPNO-CEPA/1), the steepest scaling parts of the algorithm scale as N5 (with a small prefactor). This very efficient algorithm (and implementation) promises applicability to systems with up to 100 atoms and about 2000 basis functions. The accuracy in the description of noncovalent interactions, as demonstrated on H-bonded (neutral and charged) complexes from the test set of Boese et al., (46) seems to be excellent (with a mean absolute deviation (MAD) of 0.2 kcal/mol). (46) The methods observed accuracy for 10 selected dispersion-bound and mixed complexes from the S22 database (see later) is considerably worse, MAD being 0.6 for CEPA/1 (and NCPF/1) and 0.3 kcal/mol for LPNO-CEPA/1, with the maximum errors being 1.40 for CEPA/1 (and NCPF/1), but only 0.58 kcal/mol for LPNO-CEPA/1. Since LPNO-CEPA/1 is an approximation to CEPA/1, some fortuitous error cancellation must be taking place, as the LPNO-CEPA/1 results are in significantly better agreement with the reference values. In a similar spirit, recently the LPNO approximations to QCISD and CCSD have been implemented in the same group. (145) The performance of the methods on noncovalent interactions given in the same set of 10 selected complexes from S22 revealed a slightly worse performance of the LPNO approximation than given with CEPA/1, with MAD (with respect to the reference QCISD/CCSD) being about 0.7 kcal/mol and with a maximum error of 1.2 kcal/mol (LPNO1-CCSD). Considering the orientation of the error, for instance, for the benzene dimer in parallel-displaced conformation, errors of CCSD and LPNO approximation with respect to CCSD(T) seem to be accumulating. Furthermore, the LPNO approximation is not a true linear scaling local approximation (in the spirit of the work of Werner et al., Schtz et al., etc. cited above); according to results presented in ref 145, the BSSE error is not reduced compared to the full QCISD/CCSD calculation.
3.4 Increasing the Rate of Convergence of Interaction Energy Calculations toward the Complete Basis Set Limit
The systematic convergence of the (correlation) energy calculated in a series of AO basis sets with increasing size was already recognized in the 1960s (see the overview in ref 50 and references therein). The most widely used approaches for basis set extrapolation are those proposed by Helgaker et al. (146, 147) and by Truhlar. (148) All extrapolation techniques rely on the idea of exponential dependence of the energy on the maximum angular momentum number and its polynomial simplification:(5) where the coefficients ECBS and B result from the (usually least-squares) fit of energies from a series of basis sets and parameters, X and β, which differ for each particular approximation (X  2, 3, 4, ... for the (aug-)cc-pVxZ basis sets, β being 3 in Helgakers scheme for the correlation energy, but 2.2 for the MP2 and 2.4 for the CCSD/CCSD(T) correlation energy in Truhlars scheme). The HartreeFock energy is extrapolated separately in both schemes. While in Truhlars scheme the same equation is used, but with the β coefficient being 3.4, in Helgakers scheme the HartreeFock energy scales exponentially:(6) where β equals 1.54.
A rather different scheme, targeted toward the calculation of interaction energies, utilizing an almost arbitrary series of basis sets, was proposed by Kim et al. (50, 149, 150) Unlike other extrapolation methods, this scheme takes advantage of the fact that the series of both BSSE-corrected and -uncorrected interaction energies converge to the same limit, i.e., the CBS. In its simplest form, for energies obtained in a sequence of basis sets with cardinal number X (7) where δX and εX (and δX+1 and εX+1 analogously) are defined as (8) where ΔEbX and ΔEnX are BSSE-corrected and -uncorrected interaction energies in a basis set of cardinality X. Contrary to the Helgaker-type extrapolation, which is based on systematically improved AO basis sets (such as, e.g., Dunnings cc-pVxZ or aug-cc-pVxZ sets), the Kim extrapolation can be based on different types of AO basis sets.
Assessment of the accuracy of all the numerous types of CBS extrapolation methods is almost impossible, even if we limit our attention to the largest systems currently treatable at the CCSD(T) level (i.e., about 30 second-row atoms and hydrogen). First, none of the schemes described or cited above are exact in the form that they would be derived for systems of interest here. Thus, only a statistical evaluation of these schemes would make sense; there is not, however, enough data available to carry out such an analysis. Furthermore, the performance of a basis set significantly depends on the method applied (i.e., HF, MP2, ΔCCSD(T), ...) and the systems size and geometry, due to the overlap of basis functions, as discussed above. Thus, for instance, the aug-cc-pVDZ basis set, which is usually considered to be too small for quantitative predictions, gives quite accurate results when used for HF and ΔCCSD(T) calculations, but is certainly deficient for MP2 calculations.
As already mentioned, calculation of the ΔCCSD(T) term is the rate-determining step in estimated CCSD(T)/CBS calculations. On the basis of our experience, the performance of small basis sets (such as 6-31G*(0.25), etc.) on ΔCCSD(T), though sometimes surprisingly good, is in general quite unstable, thus certainly not suitable for CBS extrapolations. (48, 52) The smallest basis sets that are generally acceptable for the calculation of this term are aug-cc-pVDZ and heavy-aug-cc-pVDZ ((h)aDZ). Accurate MP2 extrapolations of small-sized to midsized systems should be based on basis sets not smaller than aug-cc-pVTZ. Use of smaller basis sets, e.g., (h)aDZ, for these systems may spoil the extrapolation and is generally not recommended. However, for larger systems, extrapolations utilizing the (h)aDZ basis set should be quite accurate due to the intramolecular overlap of the basis functions of the investigated system. Besides, using these basis sets for larger systems is often the only option due to the prohibitive computational cost or convergence problems caused by linear dependence of the AO basis. Another option, routinely available now for MP2, its SCS variant, and the double-hybrid DFT methods by Grimme, (151) is the so-called dual-basis approach, which was recently shown to work well (errors on the order of hundredths of a kilocalorie per mole) for calculations of noncovalent interactions, with computational savings of almost an order of magnitude. (152) Extrapolation of HF is usually unnecessary when using basis sets of (augmented) triple-ζ quality or higher, since it is typically already converged to the CBS (to within a hundredth of a kilocalorie per mole). Generally, the performances of various X3-based procedures and Kims type of extrapolation are quite comparable, with results usually differing by less than 0.1 kcal/mol.
A last note to be mentioned here concerns the BSSE. The most straightforward way to alleviate artificial stabilization due to the use of unequally large basis sets for the dimer and monomers (and analogously for many-body interactions) is by applying the counterpoise (CP) method as formulated by Boys and Bernardi, i.e., using the same AO basis set for the monomers and the dimer. (153) In the formalism introduced by Xantheas, the CP-corrected interaction energy is calculated as (9) where, for instance, EαUβAB(B) means the energy of monomer B in the geometry of the AB complex with the unified basis set of monomers A and B. (154) For many-body interactions, the CP correction is slightly more complicated (see, for instance, ref 155) and will not be discussed here. Please note that in the definition of the CP-uncorrected interaction energy (10) the energies of monomers A and B are both calculated in different basis sets, each of their own, but also in different, so-called relaxed geometries. It is often claimed that the CP-corrected and -uncorrected interaction energies converge to the same limit. This is, however, not always true (see refs 50 and 154 and references therein), since the CP-corrected energy lacks monomer relaxation energy. In situations where the relaxation energy is comparable to the basis set incompleteness error, using the CP correction can degenerate the results compared to uncorrected ones (for the I···H2O complex the CP-corrected interaction energy deviates from the best reference value by 5 kcal/mol).
A remedy for this problem, which was proposed by Xantheas and also advocated elsewhere, is simply to add the missing relaxation energy of the monomers to the CP-corrected energy, Eαrel(A) and Eβrel(B): (50, 154) (11) The interaction energy defined according to this equation has the same CBS limit as the CP-uncorrected energy. This approach, however, has the major computation disadvantage of requiring optimization of the monomers in each of the applied basis sets if extrapolation to the CBS is desired. On the basis of the observation that the relaxation energy is the term that converges most rapidly with the basis set size, a more practical approach can be proposed. Instead of modifying the CP-corrected interaction energy, we can subtract the relaxation energy from the CP-uncorrected one, by simply calculating the modified, i.e., ΔEmod(CP-uncorrected):(12) This interaction energy has the same CBS limit as the CP-corrected energy in eq 9. To get the interaction energy to properly contain the relaxation of the monomers, we can a posteriori add the CBS approximation of monomer relaxation energies (calculated in a small, but reasonably selected basis set) to the CBS limit of ΔE(CP-corrected) from eq 9:(13) A completely different route to approach the CBS interaction energies is by either utilizing the OVOS (156, 157) or FNO (158) technique or introducing explicit correlation into the wave function. (159, 160) The latter of these schemes is especially likely to be the future standard approach in high-accuracy WFT. Let us briefly discuss these approaches.
In the OVOS/FNO methods, a unitary transformation of the space of virtual orbitals (VOs) is utilized to make the expansion of correlated WFs more economical. Instead of expanding the WF into the entire space of VOs, which results as a byproduct of occupied orbital (OO) optimization in the HartreeFock SCF procedure, only a truncated subspace of VOs is used. Optimization of the VOs is carried out at the MP2 level; thus, savings can obviously be achieved for methods scaling more steeply than N5 (e.g., MP3, CCSD, CCSD(T), etc.). The main drawback of the OVOS/FNO methods, if high accuracy is desired, is that the first sufficiently large basis set suitable for application of these techniques (for systems of about 30 atoms) is (h)aTZ. On the other hand, the use of OVOS/FNO orbitals has the advantage that no CP correction of monomers is required. The reason for this is that the contribution of VOs resulting from ghost basis functions of monomers in counterpoise-corrected calculations is almost completely absorbed into the optimized virtual space. (156) Several successful applications of this method have demonstrated that the use of OVOS/FNO allows for calculations using basis sets that are 1 cardinal number higher (or more, depending on the size of the basis set) compared to traditional correlated methods, for almost the same cost.
Recent major conceptual progress in the explicitly correlated theories allows for the application of R12/F12-MP2 (161-168) and R12/F12-CCSD(T) (169-177) methods for much larger systems than were previously possible with these techniques. What is even more important is that now it is possible to use much smaller basis sets than before to yield similar results. Alleviation of the rather strong conditions imposed by the so-called standard approximation, by introducing the auxiliary basis along with the new correlation factors (F12), was the most important step in making the explicitly correlated method applicable for real-life examples. Pilot applications of these novel approaches in explicitly correlated theories show that MP2-F12 (in various approximations) is capable of delivering almost CBS quality results already with the aug-cc-pVTZ basis sets. (178) Similar quality results were demonstrated for CCSD(T)-F12 (in various approximations) calculations of parallel-displaced and T-shaped configurations of the benzene dimer, where the (h)aTZ basis set gives results within 0.03 kcal/mol of the estimated CCSD(T)/CBS values by Janowski and Pulay, and were even obtained without using an incremental scheme, in the spirit of eq 1. (20) 4 Density Functional Theories
4.1 Main Limitation of Density Functional Theory: Dispersion Interaction
A few years ago, density functional theory would hardly be regarded as a method for chemical-accuracy calculations of noncovalent interactions. The majority of density functionals, which were widely spread, provided rather poor results in this regard, in particular when speaking about the dispersion-dominated complexes. (179-181) The weakly bonded structures are usually predicted to be less stable than in reality, and sometimes they cannot even be localized as a stationary point on the potential energy surface. (182) However, although it has been clear for a long time that DFT is not suitable for high-accuracy calculations, only in the past few years have the deficiencies of the current DFT functionals become understood and appreciated.
It is necessary to note that density functional theory itself is capable of providing the exact solution to the Schrdinger equation, including long-range correlationthe dispersion. The root of the rather unsatisfactory description of the intermolecular interactions in DFT lies in the approximations made in the DFT functionals, not in density functional theory itself. The most widely used GGA approximation determines the exchange-correlation (XC) energy on the basis of the electron density and the reduced electron density gradient at a given grid point. Because the XC energy is calculated only from the local properties of the density, the total XC energy is also necessarily local. As a consequence, the dispersion energy, which requires a nonlocal description in the DFT context, is not explicitly covered by the GGA functionals. This also holds, with only minor differences, for other currently used DFT functionalsLDA, hybrid functionals, and meta-GGA functionals.
The recognition of the importance of dispersion forces, along with the accumulated numerical evidence regarding the unsatisfactory performance of current functionals, fueled many efforts for improvement. A variety of methods were suggested to mitigate the inherent problem of locality in DFT, ranging from the simple, but surprisingly successful, empirical corrections to the nonlocal pseudopotentials in plane wave methods and reparametrization of current functionals and to the construction of truly nonlocal new density functionals. Many of these methods quickly became very successful, and nowadays DFT-based calculations are slowly gaining credit even in the area of accurate noncovalent interaction energy calculations. Thus, DFT theory, which used to have a rather bad reputation regarding noncovalent interactions, is slowly becoming a method of choice for routine calculations with good reliability. In the following paragraphs we will briefly review some of the main issues in the DFT treatment of the dispersion energy and the main features of the most successful solutions.
4.1.1 Locality of the Density Functionals
The word local in the DFT context is often used in different meanings, and this might cause confusion in the world of noncovalent interactions. For instance, many groups label the GGA functionals, such as BLYP or PW91, as nonlocal or semilocal functionals to emphasize the additional gradient corrections exceeding the LSDA approximation. However, the gradient corrections are in the mathematical sense local, because they describe electron density properties at only one place in space. In this review we prefer to use the term local for all LDA, GGA, and meta-GGA functionals. By contrast, hybrid functionals are nonlocal in their exchange part, because they contain some portion of explicit HartreeFock exchange. Therefore, B3LYP is called a nonlocal functional (it contains nonlocal exchange), but the correlation part of B3LYP is local. The exact density functional must be nonlocal in both its exchange and correlation parts. For the physically correct description of the dispersion interaction within the DFT framework, a nonlocal correlation functional is needed (nonlocality is introduced through its kernel). Hence, no GGA- or meta-GGA-based functional is sufficient. The clearest demonstration of the missing dispersion is the incorrect asymptotic behavior of such functionals. The nonpolar molecules exhibit r6 decay of the interaction energy (London dispersion), while the local DFT interaction energy decays approximately exponentially. Upon the suggestion of a reviewer, we emphasize that the correct description of dispersion is connected with nonlocality only in the DFT context, not in general. For instance, in WFT dispersion does not require nonlocality in the above-described sense, but as a many-body effect, it requires a many-body treatment.
4.1.2 Terminology of Correlation Interaction in DFT
In this paragraph we will address the question of the long-range correlation energy, which is the energy component missing in current local or semilocal density functionals. It is not completely accurate to call this energy the dispersion energy. Strictly speaking, the term dispersion should only be used in the asymptote of large intermolecular separations, far from the region of electronic overlap, but we are very often interested in the molecular systems at the van der Waals (vdW) distances, where the electronic overlap is still fairly large. Here, the long-range correlation contributes significantly; its contribution is only somewhat smaller than it would be according to the respective asymptotic dispersion formula. We will say that the dispersion interaction is damped (reduced) at short distances, and we will call it damped dispersion, especially in connection with the methods where a damping function is used to correct the asymptotic expansion. A very similar and basically equivalent name, overlap-dispersive interaction, is used by Grimme. (183) Both these terms contain the word dispersion, which we believe is appropriate, since it reflects the nature of this interaction resulting from the long-range correlation of instantaneous dipole moments of fluctuating electronic density. Another similar but not equivalent term, medium-range correlation, was introduced for the dispersion-like interactions in the overlap region by Grimme (184) and is frequently used by Zhao and Truhlar. (185) This term, however, does not cover the long-range nonoverlap part of the correlation energy. In the following, instead of damped dispersion, we will often use the term dispersion for short, keeping in mind that it is always damped at shorter intermolecular separations.
4.1.3 Perturbative vs Self-Consistent Treatment of the Dispersion Correction
The dispersion corrections to DFT can be applied in two different ways. In a perturbative, or postprocess, approach we first perform the DFT SCF calculation without the dispersion correction, and then, in the second step, the dispersion correction is calculated using the electron density from the first step. Methods that do not employ the density to calculate the dispersion interaction, such as the empirical dispersion correction, also belong to this category. This approach is usually fast and easy to implement when compared to the second approach, the self-consistent treatment of the density. In the self-consistent treatment, the electron density changes in the SCF procedure according to the dispersion potential, as it properly should. The dispersion potential is also needed for the correct calculation of molecular geometries. However, the self-consistent treatment of dispersion is more demanding, and the corresponding potential is sometimes not easily available. Fortunately, it has been shown that the self-consistent inclusion of the dispersion interaction changes the electron density only very little and, in most cases, the errors due to non-self-consistent treatment are negligible. (186) Therefore, the empirical and perturbative treatments of dispersion seem justified in most cases.
4.2 DFT and Empirical Dispersion Corrections
The simplest way to introduce dispersion into DFT is to add some sort of an empirical dispersion correction to the DFT results. The empirical correction is usually based on the asymptotic formulas valid for long-range interactions. DFT is known to provide a fairly good description of the short-range correlations. In the intermediate region, both DFT and empirical correction are valid to some extent. To avoid double counting at the intermediate distances and to adjust the empirical correction to a given functional, some sort of damping function is necessary. The damping function continuously switches off the dispersion from the intermediate to the short distances, and its form is usually chosen by trial and error. Experience in the past few years has shown that it is just the quality of the damping function that determines the accuracy of the DFT-D method.
The history of correcting a DFT or HF calculation by a simple empirical dispersion term goes back to Scoles et al., who in 1975 suggested that a damped dispersion term correction to an HF calculation can remarkably improve the potential energy curves of rare-gas atoms. (187) The combination of HF with a damped dispersion function was also studied by Tang and Toennies with emphasis put on the damping function. (188, 189) In the early 1980s Hobza et al. applied both damped and undamped atomic dispersion corrections to rather large systems, such as complexes of anesthetics (190-192) and nucleic acid base pairs. (193) Over time, many researchers tailored accurate and specific (i.e., nontransferable) dispersion expressions for many small molecular complexes. (194-196) Later some authors tested different damping functions and other variations of the dispersion treatment for several small molecules, (197, 198) with the conclusion that different combinations of dispersion and DFT functionals are suitable for different complexes. (198) At this point, a universal and transferable dispersion correction seemed to be difficult to reach.
One of the first more generally oriented approaches appeared in 2001, when Elstner and Hobza et al. added an atomic damped dispersion correction to the DFT-based semiempirical SCC-DFTB method by Elstner et al., (199) which significantly improved performance for a wide range of molecules, from peptides to nucleic acids. (200) (Now there are also other modifications of the SCC-DFT-D method available. (201)) In 2004 Grimme presented a simple atomic dispersion scheme (termed DFT-D) that gives very good results across a wide range of weakly bonded complexes of different natures. (135) He showed that a simple scaling of the C6 coefficients can be used to adapt the dispersion correction to various functionals, such as PBE or BLYP, which otherwise differ remarkably in their ability to deal with the weakly bonded complexes. In 2007 some of us suggested a different scaling (vdW radii are scaled instead of the C6 coefficients) which removes the main disadvantage of Grimmes scheme. (136) Scaling of the vdW radii results in slightly smaller errors for the complexes in vacuum, but mainly it ensures that the C6 coefficients are not scaled at the long range, where there is no electron overlap, which is more physically correct. Other researchers used this scaling before for special applications, (202, 203) and many use it now for general and transferable dispersion schemes. (204-207) This might be important mainly in the condensed phase, such as in molecular crystals. (204) The damped atomic dispersion corrections (we will call them DFT-D according to Grimme (135) from now on) by Grimme (135) and Jurecka et al. (136) provide a very accurate description of weakly bonded complexes, with results that are statistically better than those of MP2 calculations using medium and large basis sets. (136) Many authors followed this strategy and presented their own reparametrizations and modifications of DFT-D with similar results. Of special interest is the work of Tkatchenko and Scheffler, (208) who introduced approximate dependence of the C6 coefficients and damping radii on the actual electronic structure.
Although the above-mentioned DFT-D schemes were already a major improvement over pure DFT, they still suffered from certain systematic errors, one of them being average overestimation of the interaction energies of the hydrogen-bonded complexes. (136) It was speculated that these errors come partially from the XC functionals (mainly the exchange part) and not from the dispersion correction. (136) Indeed, in 2006 Grimme reparametrized the B97 functional (a GGA functional) including the dispersion correction in the parametrization process. (151) The resulting B97-D functional does not suffer from the above-mentioned systematic errors and is, in our opinion, the best DFT-D method with the empirical vdW radii and C6 coefficients available; other methods will be discussed below in which C6 and vdW radii are not empirical and are obtained from the DFT calculation, which sometimes perform even better. Other reparametrizations of the DFT functionals, with similarly good results, were recently presented by Chai and Head-Gordon (ωB97X-D) (206) and others. (209)
4.2.1 Role of the Damping Function


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do computational methods, particularly density functional theory (DFT) and cluster models, enhance our ability to predict, analyze, and understand the catalytic activity of doped oxide catalysts in alkane activation, and what are the key considerations, challenges, and potential benefits of these approaches in terms of accuracy, efficiency, and the exploration of new catalytic materials?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 