<quotes>
4.1.1.2 Low-Temperature Hydrogenation of Olefins, Dienes, and Aromatics: "Goda et al. (306) performed DFT calculations of 1-butene and 1-hexene on 3d/Pt(111) surfaces and found that the subsurface Pt3dPt(111) structure binds more weakly to 1-butene and 1-hexene than on Pt(111) and 3dPtPt(111) surfaces, similar to the trend observed for cyclohexene."
Murillo et al. (228) verified the DFT predictions with TPD measurement of facile low-temperature hydrogenation of 1-butene and 1-hexene on PtNiPt(111). These results further suggest that DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energy can be used as descriptors for catalysts with good hydrogenation activity.
Hydrogenation of 1,3-Butadiene, 1,3-Cyclohexadiene, And 1,4-Cyclohexadiene Bimetallic PtM (M = Co, Ni, Cu) are active toward the low-temperature hydrogenation of all three molecules when supported on γ-Al2O3. (238, 243)
Selectively Hydrogenation of Acetylene in Ethylene: "The PtNi/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts show a higher selectivity for acetylene hydrogenation in the presence of excess ethylene than the monometallic Pt and Ni catalysts. (303)"
Hydrogenation of Aromatics: "DFT calculations identified PtCo bimetallic catalysts as promising materials for the hydrogenation of benzene, which were confirmed experimentally over supported PtCo/γ-Al2O3 at a relatively low temperature of 343 K. (280, 310)"
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The integrated theoretical and experimental approach, combining DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energies with techniques like TPD measurements, allows for a correlation between the calculated properties and experimental observations of hydrogenation activity for various C═C bond-containing molecules on Pt-3d catalysts. This approach provides descriptors for predicting the hydrogenation activity of catalysts, facilitating the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
将第一原理计算（DFT）中表面d带中心和吸附剂结合能的计算与TPD等实验技术相结合的方法，能够将理论预测与各种含C═C键分子在Pt-3d催化剂上的氢化活性之间的关系联系起来。这种方法提供了预测催化剂活性的描述符，有助于设计更高效的Pt-3d催化系统。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
