<quotes>

[1] "Results obtained by adding gaseous promoters (CO2, N2O and H2) into the reaction feed are presented for two different reactions: (i) oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP), and (ii) catalytic combustion of methane (CCM)."
[2] "The addition of 300 ppm N2O modifies the catalytic performances of the same catalyst in the same reaction by, principally: (i) decreasing the conversion of propane and oxygen, (ii) increasing the yield and the selectivity to propylene, and (iii) decreasing the yield and the selectivity to CO2."
[3] "In the presence of N2O, catalytic sites work in a more reduced state and, consequently, in a more selective way."
[4] "When the amount of N2O is higher than 300 ppm, another phenomenon probably takes place. Oxygen species coming from N2O dissociation could also play a role, suggesting that, while being less oxidant than O2, N2O is also able to induce the ODP."
[5] "The results obtained when the catalyst contains one monolayer of NiMoO4 were similar, but less significant (when 1 vol.% N2O is added,conversion decreases from 7.5 to 4.3% and selectivity increases from 34.8 to 41.9%)."
[6] "An interesting result was obtained with 1 (monolayer)-NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 cat- alyst in the presence of 5 vol.% N2O only (i.e. without O2). In this case, the conversion of propane was 6.8% and the yield and the selectivity in propylene were 3.2 and 47.5%,respectively."
[7] "However, the conversion of N2O was very low (only 0.5%). This result indicates that the propylene formed (3.2%) is not exclusively due to the ODP with N2O. Propylene is also formed by another mechanism, probably involving lattice oxygen from the catalyst."
[8] "On the other hand, in the absence of O2, the catalysts show a very high amount of carbon. This observation indicates that the use of pure N2O to perform the ODP is not advisable. Molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise the catalyst deactivates quickly."
[9] "N2O reduces the catalysts (molybdenum), explain- ing the high carbon formation. These results strongly suggest that: (i) a potential role of N2O in the presence of NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalyst is to inhibit the non- selective sites, (ii) the formation of propylene by using pure N2O is very low, and (iii) it is the presence of both O2 and N2O (as promoter) that can fully explain the better selectivity of the catalysts in ODP, due to the modulation of their adequate oxidation state during the reaction."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Nitrous oxide (N2O) has been used as a gaseous promoter in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) and catalytic combustion of methane (CCM). In ODP, the addition of 300 ppm N2O can decrease the conversion of propane and oxygen, increase the yield and selectivity to propylene, and decrease the yield and selectivity to CO2. This is because in the presence of N2O, catalytic sites work in a more reduced state and, consequently, in a more selective way. When the amount of N2O is higher than 300 ppm, oxygen species coming from N2O dissociation could also play a role, suggesting that, while being less oxidant than O2, N2O is also able to induce the ODP. However, the conversion of N2O was very low, indicating that the propylene formed is not exclusively due to the ODP with N2O. Propylene is also formed by another mechanism, probably involving lattice oxygen from the catalyst. In the absence of O2, the catalysts show a very high amount of carbon, indicating that the use of pure N2O to perform the ODP is not advisable. Molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise the catalyst deactivates quickly. N2O reduces the catalysts (molybdenum), explaining the high carbon formation. These results strongly suggest that a potential role of N2O in the presence of NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalyst is to inhibit the non-selective sites, the formation of propylene by using pure N2O is very low, and it is the presence of both O2 and N2O (as promoter) that can fully explain the better selectivity of the catalysts in ODP, due to the modulation of their adequate oxidation state during the reaction.
2.The use of N2O as an oxidant in ODP has several advantages over other oxidants. Firstly, N2O can improve the selectivity to propylene, which is the desired product in ODP. Secondly, N2O can inhibit the non-selective sites, leading to a lower conversion and higher selectivity. However, there are also critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. In the absence of O2, the catalysts show a very high amount of carbon, indicating that the use of pure N2O to perform the ODP is not advisable. Molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise the catalyst deactivates quickly. N2O reduces the catalysts (molybdenum), explaining the high carbon formation. To address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation, strategies or research directions could include: (i) developing more stable catalysts that can withstand the reducing environment created by N2O, (ii) optimizing the reaction conditions to maximize the selectivity to propylene while minimizing the formation of carbonaceous deposits, (iii) exploring the use of other promoters or co-promoters that can enhance the stability and activity of the catalysts, and (iv) investigating the mechanism of N2O dissociation and its role in the ODP reaction.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.一氧化二氮(N2O)已被用作丙烷氧化脱氢(ODP)和甲烷催化燃烧(CCM)的气体促进剂。在ODP中，添加300 ppm N2O可以降低丙烷和氧气的转化率，提高丙烯的产率和选择性，降低CO2的产率和选择性。这是因为，在N2O的存在下，催化位点处于更还原的状态，因此，以更选择性的方式工作。当N2O的量高于300 ppm时，来自N2O分解的氧物种也可能发挥作用，表明尽管N2O的氧化性低于O2，但它也能诱导ODP。然而，N2O的转化率非常低，表明形成的丙烯并非完全由于N2O的ODP。丙烯也可能通过另一种机制形成，可能涉及催化剂的晶格氧。在没有O2的情况下，催化剂显示出大量的碳，表明仅使用N2O进行ODP是不可取的。在N2O存在的情况下，需要分子氧来氧化和再生催化剂，否则催化剂会迅速失活。N2O还原催化剂(钼)，解释了高碳的形成。这些结果强烈表明，NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41催化剂存在下N2O的潜在作用是抑制非选择性位点，仅使用N2O形成的丙烯非常低，O2和N2O(作为促进剂)的存在可以充分解释催化剂在ODP中更好的选择性，这是由于在反应过程中调节了它们适当的氧化态。
2.在ODP中使用N2O作为氧化剂与其它氧化剂相比有几个优点。首先，N2O可以提高对丙烯的选择性，这是ODP中期望的产品。其次，N2O可以抑制非选择性位点，导致较低的转化率和较高的选择性。然而，催化剂失活和稳定性也存在关键挑战。在没有O2的情况下，催化剂显示出大量的碳，表明仅使用N2O进行ODP是不可取的。在N2O存在的情况下，需要分子氧来氧化和再生催化剂，否则催化剂会迅速失活。N2O还原催化剂(钼)，解释了高碳的形成。为了解决这些限制，并可能使N2O-ODHP成为更可行的实用实施选项，策略或研究方向可能包括：(i)开发能承受N2O产生的还原环境的更稳定催化剂，(ii)优化反应条件，以最大化对丙烯的选择性，同时最小化碳沉积物的形成，(iii)探索使用其他促进剂或共促进剂，以增强催化剂的稳定性和活性，(iv)研究N2O分解的机制及其在ODP反应中的作用。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
