<quotes>

[1] "Results obtained by adding gaseous promoters (CO2, N2O and H2) into the reaction feed are presented for two different reactions: (i) oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP), and (ii) catalytic combustion of methane (CCM)."
[2] "The addition of 300 ppm N2O modifies the catalytic performances of the same catalyst in the same reaction by, principally: (i) decreasing the conversion of propane and oxygen, (ii) increasing the yield and the selectivity to propylene, and (iii) decreasing the yield and the selectivity to CO2."
[3] "In the presence of N2O, catalytic sites work in a more reduced state and, consequently, in a more selective way."
[4] "When the amount of N2O is higher than 300 ppm, another phenomenon probably takes place. Oxygen species coming from N2O dissociation could also play a role, suggesting that, while being less oxidant than O2, N2O is also able to induce the ODP."
[5] "The use of pure N2O to perform the ODP is not advisable. Molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise the catalyst deactivates quickly."
[6] "N2O reduces the catalysts (molybdenum), explaining the high carbon formation."
[7] "It is the presence of both O2 and N2O (as promoter) that can fully explain the better selectivity of the catalysts in ODP, due to the modulation of their adequate oxidation state during the reaction."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Nitrous oxide (N2O) has been shown to modify the catalytic performances of the same catalyst in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) reaction. Principally, it decreases the conversion of propane and oxygen, increases the yield and selectivity to propylene, and decreases the yield and selectivity to CO2. In the presence of N2O, catalytic sites work in a more reduced state, leading to a more selective reaction. When the amount of N2O is higher than 300 ppm, oxygen species coming from N2O dissociation could also play a role, suggesting that N2O is also able to induce the ODP, although less oxidant than O2. However, the use of pure N2O to perform the ODP is not advisable as molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise the catalyst deactivates quickly. N2O reduces the catalysts (molybdenum), explaining the high carbon formation. It is the presence of both O2 and N2O (as promoter) that can fully explain the better selectivity of the catalysts in ODP, due to the modulation of their adequate oxidation state during the reaction.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.一氧化二氮（N2O）已被证明可以改变同一催化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODP）反应中的催化性能。主要表现为降低丙烷和氧气的转化率，提高丙烯的产率和选择性，降低CO2的产率和选择性。在N2O存在下，催化位点处于更还原的状态，导致反应更具选择性。当N2O的量高于300 ppm时，来自N2O分解的氧物种也可能发挥作用，表明N2O虽然不如O2氧化性强，但也能诱导ODP。然而，仅使用N2O进行ODP是不可取的，因为在N2O存在下，需要分子氧来氧化和再生催化剂，否则催化剂会迅速失活。N2O会还原催化剂（钼），解释了高碳形成的原因。正是O2和N2O（作为促进剂）的存在，才能充分解释催化剂在ODP中更好的选择性，这是由于它们在反应过程中对催化剂适当氧化态的调节。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
