<quotes>

[1] "Propene (C3H6) is among the foundation feedstock for large volume commodities and specialty chemicals, such as cumene, acrylonitrile,propylene oxide and high-purity polypropylene, and its demand is expected to increase significantly in the near future."
[2] "At present, its industrial production is based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum-based materials, via steam cracking, fluid-catalytic- cracking and catalytic dehydrogenation."
[3] "Possible replacements with lower costs and sustainable alternatives is attracting a rising interest since many years, and the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane appeared among the most promising, because of the higher energy efficiency (ODH is exothermic, while dehydrogenation and cracking are endothermic processes), and process simplicity."
[4] "A review on the catalysts for propane ODH was compiled by Cavani et al. in 2007,2 who considered the performances in ODH of propane with O2 as oxidant of almost 100 catalysts, with different active phases,reported in literature over the 2000-2006 period, and concluded that the best propylene yields resulting from propane ODH (ca. 30%) were still far from being interesting for industrial implementation, as well as the information concerning catalyst lifetime appeared quite limited."
[5] "Moreover, in that review the set-up of catalytic materials and/or reactor configurations capable of maintaining high selectivity to propylene under conditions leading to high propane conversion was addressed as main direction for future development."
[6] "Later on, an initial yield in C3H6 as high as ca. 47%, decreasing to ca. 33% after 8 h on stream were reported for propane dehydrogenation over GaOx based catalysts.4"
[7] "More recently, the kinetics for the ODH of C3H8 on VOx catalysts was reviewed by Carrero et al., and for the systems considered the combination of reported conversions and selectivities resulted in yields in C3H6 not exceeding 30%.5"
[8] "Conversely, Ovsitser et al.,reported the attainment of a yield in propene of ca. 40% for the oxidative dehydrogenation of C3H8 under O2 lean-conditions over VOx/SiO2 catalysts, even a quite long reaction time.6"
[9] "Similar results were obtained by these authors for the oxydative dehydrogenation of iso-C4H10 to iso-C4H8.7"
[10] "In this respect, the attainment of high selectivity to olefins via ODH of alkanes is basically limited, from a chemical point of view, by the use of O2 as oxidant, because of the occurrence of the over- oxidation to carbon oxides of both fed paraffins and produced olefins."
[11] "On such a basis, the use of CO2 as mild oxidant has attracted attention after the successful use in other partial oxidation reactions such as dry reforming8,9 and oxidative coupling of methane.10, 11"
[12] "Although ODH of propane in the presence of CO2 is an endothermic process (H298K= + 166.6 kJ/mol), the addition of a small amount of oxygen can turn the process towards an exothermic character, and additional positive effects towards the catalyst coking might be expected."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. Propene (C3H6) is a key raw material for large volume commodities and specialty chemicals, such as cumene, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide, and high-purity polypropylene, and its demand is expected to increase significantly in the near future. Currently, its industrial production is based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum-based materials through steam cracking, fluid-catalytic cracking, and catalytic dehydrogenation. However, the search for lower-cost and more sustainable alternatives has attracted growing interest over the years, and the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane has emerged as one of the most promising options due to its higher energy efficiency (ODH is exothermic, while dehydrogenation and cracking are endothermic processes) and process simplicity. A review by Cavani et al. in 2007 considered the performance of almost 100 catalysts for propane ODH with O2 as the oxidant, reported in literature from 2000 to 2006, and concluded that the best propylene yields (around 30%) were still far from being commercially viable, and information on catalyst lifetime was quite limited. The main direction for future development was identified as the development of catalytic materials and/or reactor configurations capable of maintaining high selectivity to propylene under conditions leading to high propane conversion. Subsequent studies have reported initial yields in C3H6 as high as 47%, decreasing to around 33% after 8 hours on stream for propane dehydrogenation over GaOx-based catalysts. More recently, the kinetics for the ODH of C3H8 on VOx catalysts was reviewed, and for the systems considered, the combination of reported conversions and selectivities resulted in yields in C3H6 not exceeding 30%. Conversely, Ovsitser et al. reported the attainment of a yield in propene of around 40% for the oxidative dehydrogenation of C3H8 under O2 lean conditions over VOx/SiO2 catalysts, even after a long reaction time. Similar results were obtained for the oxydative dehydrogenation of iso-C4H10 to iso-C4H8. The attainment of high selectivity to olefins via ODH of alkanes is limited by the use of O2 as an oxidant, due to the over-oxidation to carbon oxides of both fed paraffins and produced olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has attracted attention after its successful use in other partial oxidation reactions such as dry reforming and oxidative coupling of methane. Although ODH of propane in the presence of CO2 is an endothermic process, the addition of a small amount of oxygen can turn the process towards an exothermic character, and additional positive effects on catalyst coking might be expected.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 丙烯(C3H6)是大量商品和特种化学品(如酮、丙烯腈、环氧丙烷和高纯度聚丙烯)的基础原料，预计其需求在不久的将来会显著增加。目前，其工业生产基于非氧化处理石油基材料，通过蒸汽裂解、流化催化裂解和催化脱氢。然而，多年来，寻找成本更低、更可持续的替代品引起了越来越多的兴趣，丙烷的氧化脱氢(ODH)因其更高的能效(ODH是放热的，而脱氢和裂解是吸热的)和过程的简单性而成为最有希望的选项之一。2007年，Cavani等人回顾了2000年至2006年文献中报道的近100种催化剂在O2作为氧化剂时的丙烷ODH性能，得出结论，丙烷ODH得到的最佳丙烯产量(约30%)仍然远未达到商业可行性，关于催化剂寿命的信息也相当有限。未来发展的主要方向被确定为开发催化材料和/或反应器配置，能够在导致高丙烷转化率的条件下保持对丙烯的高选择性。后续研究报道了丙烷脱氢在GaOx基催化剂上的初始C3H6产量高达47%，在流化8小时后降至约33%。最近，对C3H8在VOx催化剂上的ODH动力学进行了回顾，对于所考虑的系统，报告的转化率和选择性的结合导致C3H6的产量不超过30%。相比之下，Ovsitser等人报道了在VOx/SiO2催化剂上，在O2贫条件下，C3H8的氧化脱氢得到的丙烯产量约为40%，即使在长时间的反应后也是如此。对于iso-C4H10到iso-C4H8的氧脱氢也得到了类似的结果。通过烷烃的ODH获得高烯烃选择性基本上受到O2作为氧化剂的限制，因为无论是喂入的石蜡还是产生的烯烃都会过度氧化为碳氧化物。在其他部分氧化反应(如干重整和甲烷氧化偶联)中成功使用后，CO2作为温和氧化剂的使用引起了人们的关注。尽管在CO2存在下丙烷的ODH是一个吸热过程(H298K= + 166.6 kJ/mol)，但添加少量氧气可以使过程转向放热特性，并可能对催化剂的焦化产生额外的积极影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
