<quotes>
The nature of active chromium species in Cr-catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane: New insights by a comprehensive spectroscopic study Abstract Dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) was studied over a series of xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3 catalysts, prepared by incipient wetness impregnation, to gain a better understanding of the nature and distribution of Cr species and their catalytic function. To this end, the catalysts were characterized by N2-physisorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD), UV-Raman spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopyenergy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEMEDXS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XANES and EXAFS).

All these characterization techniques indicate that, at 1 wt% Cr, SBA-15 contains exclusively uniform distribution of chromium as isolated Cr(VI) species in tetrahedral ( ) coordination, whilst on γ-Al2O3 a fraction of oligomers (including dimers) is present along with isolated species. At 5 wt% Cr, SBA-15 is dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles, besides a fraction of isolated Cr(VI) species in coordination. Remarkably, γ-Al2O3 contains mainly oligomers with different degrees of nuclearity and a fraction of isolated species but no Cr2O3 particles.

Among xCrSBA-15 catalysts, those containing exclusively isolated Cr species (i.e., 1 wt% Cr) exhibit higher activity and selectivity with respect to per mole of Cr than the catalyst dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles (5 wt% Cr). The intrinsic activity of these isolated Cr species is higher than those observed on γ-Al2O3 (1 wt% Cr).

Interestingly, among xCrAl2O3, the catalysts dominated by oligomeric species show the highest activity, indicating the important role of the species in the reaction.

In situ XAS studies evidence that active Cr sites are apparently generated on-site during the reaction and that Cr is typically in (III) oxidation state.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study found that at 1 wt% Cr, SBA-15 contains exclusively isolated Cr(VI) species in tetrahedral coordination, while γ-Al2O3 contains a fraction of oligomers along with isolated species. At 5 wt% Cr, SBA-15 is dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles, while γ-Al2O3 contains mainly oligomers with different degrees of nuclearity. Catalysts containing exclusively isolated Cr species (1 wt% Cr) exhibit higher activity and selectivity than those dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles (5 wt% Cr). Oligomeric Cr species are found to be more active than isolated Cr species on γ-Al2O3. In situ XAS studies showed that active Cr sites are generated on-site during the reaction and that Cr is typically in (III) oxidation state.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究发现，在1 wt% Cr时，SBA-15仅包含四面体（）协调的孤立Cr(VI)物种，而γ-Al2O3包含一部分寡聚物以及孤立物种。在5 wt% Cr时，SBA-15主要由晶态α-Cr2O3颗粒组成，而γ-Al2O3主要由具有不同核度的寡聚物组成。仅含孤立Cr物种（1 wt% Cr）的催化剂比主要由晶态α-Cr2O3颗粒组成的催化剂表现出更高的活性和选择性。γ-Al2O3上的寡聚Cr物种比孤立Cr物种更活跃。原位XAS研究表明，反应期间生成活性Cr位点，并且Cr通常处于（III）氧化状态。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
