<quotes>
<p>The formation of oxygen vacancies has been studied extensively for reducible oxides, in particular, TiO2 and CeO2. (19-23) The removal of an oxygen atom from these oxides causes the reduction of Ti or Ce from a formal charge of 4+ to 3+. The electrons that had been engaged in the bond between the removed oxygen and the oxide become localized on the cation after oxygen removal. Even though compounds in which La is divalent exist (e.g., LaH2, LaSe, LaS, LaTe), La has a very strong preference for being trivalent. For this reason, La2O3 is considered an irreducible oxide in the sense that chemical events at the surface of the oxide will not induce La atoms to change their valence (or formal charge). We suspect, therefore, that the electronic structure of oxygen vacancies on La2O2 will be different than that on TiO2 or CeO2. In particular, it is more likely that the electrons that were engaged in bonding the removed oxygen atom will be localized at the vacancy site. The calculations presented here confirm that this is the case. The presence of these electrons at the oxygen-vacancy site will affect the chemical properties of the defect, especially its ability to bind electrophilic reactants, such as O2.</p>
<p>We have examined two faces of La2O3 because there is evidence that, in the case of oxides, different faces can have very different catalytic chemistry. For example, the MoS2 catalyst consists of platelets whose largest facet is unreactive; the active sites for desulfurization are at the edges of the platelets. (24-27) The energies of oxygen-vacancy formation on doped CeO2 on different faces are substantially different from each other. (28) The most stable Mo oxide cluster on the (101) face of anatase has the stoichiometry MoO3 and one molybdyl; on the (001) face, the stoichiometry is MoO4 (Mo takes an oxygen atom from the surface) and the cluster has two molybdyl groups. (29) Substantial differences have been found between the Mo oxide clusters on two faces of γ-alumina. (30)</p>
<p>It is difficult to measure reliably the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in the top layer of an oxide surface. Nevertheless, it appears that most DFT calculations find that the energy for forming oxygen vacancies is surprisingly high when compared with experiments. It is conceivable that this reflects errors in DFT, but we do not believe that the errors could be so large. We proposed a possible explanation. We note that it is possible that many of the catalysts studied experimentally may be inadvertently doped. The precursors have usually a purity of 99.99%, which means that the catalyst contains 0.01% unknown impurities. By the standards of the electronic materials industry, this is a very heavy doping level. These unknown dopants can affect the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in two ways. A global effect occurs because the dopants change the Fermi level. This can, in turn, change the charge of the vacancy and the energy of its formation, (49-51) which will affect the catalytic properties of the oxide. In addition, if the unknown dopants have a tendency to segregate at the surface, they affect the neighboring oxygen locally, by modifying the chemical bonds of the oxygen to the oxide. In the present calculations, we see the sum of the two effects. The global effect can be identified, when it exists, by testing whether the dopant affects the oxygen-vacancy formation energy for oxygen atoms located at some distance from the dopant.</p>
<p>There is at least one example where accidental doping affected catalysis: the activity of silica for methane partial oxidation is due to the unintended presence of Fe impurities. (52) Also, Lefferts et al. (53) used X-ray fluorescence and low-energy ion scattering to show that CaO, TiO2, and Na2O were present on the surface of YSZ and affected catalytic properties.</p>
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The electronic structure of oxygen vacancies on La2O3 is distinct from those in TiO2 and CeO2 due to the irreducible nature of La2O3. The electrons that were engaged in the bond with the removed oxygen atom are more likely to be localized at the vacancy site, affecting the defect's chemical properties, particularly its ability to bind electrophilic reactants like O2.

2. Different faces of La2O3 exhibit distinct catalytic chemistry, as evidenced by the varying energies of oxygen-vacancy formation on different surfaces. This contrasts with findings in other oxides like CeO2, where energies of oxygen-vacancy formation differ significantly between faces.

3. Accidental doping of catalysts can significantly impact their performance. Unknown impurities in catalyst precursors can alter the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation through global and local effects, affecting the catalytic properties of the oxide. The presence of impurities like Fe in silica or CaO, TiO2, and Na2O on the surface of YSZ has been shown to influence catalytic activities.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 兰酸盐中氧空位的电子结构与钛酸盐和铈酸盐不同，因为兰酸盐是不可还原氧化物。被移除氧原子所绑定的电子更可能在空位位置局部化，影响缺陷的化学性质，尤其是其吸附亲电反应物如O2的能力。

2. 兰酸盐的不同面展现出不同的催化化学特性，这体现在不同表面上氧空位形成能的差异上。这与铈酸盐等其他氧化物的发现形成对比，在铈酸盐中，不同表面的氧空位形成能有显著差异。

3. 催化剂中的意外掺杂可以显著改变其性能。催化剂前体中的未知杂质可以通过全局和局部效应改变氧空位形成能，从而影响氧化物的催化性质。例如，硅酸盐的活性部分归因于意外存在的铁杂质。Lefferts等人通过X射线荧光和低能离子散射技术发现，YSZ表面的CaO、TiO2和Na2O的存在影响了催化性质。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
