<quotes>
React. Kinet. Catal. Lett., Vol. 37, No. 1, 77-81 (1988)

Pyridine (py) and acetic acid (Ac) adsorption on dealu- minated HY zeolites with A1 content in the range of 3.9- 58 per unit cell (U.C.) was studied at 553 K by a flow- gravimetric technique.

The ratio of the number of ad- sorbed py and Ac molecules to the number of A1 atoms was plotted as a function of the A1 content. The plot passes through a maximum for py and a minimum for Ac.

The extrema are at about 30 AI/U.C.

Acop6Hm nHpHHHa (Py) n yKCyCHOH KHCnOTbl (Ac)

DeamMHHnpOBaHHblX

HY

c coepgaHMeM A1 3.9-58

Ha eHHHUy sqeKH (U.C.)

HccneoBanH HpM 553 K C nOMOmb cTpyeBOFO FpaBHMeTpHqeCKOFO MeTOa. 0THOeHHe qHCa aCOp6HpOBaHHNX MoneKyn Py H Ac K qHCny aTOMOB A1 Hso6paanH B 3aBHCHMOCTH 0T coepaHHS AI. KpHBaS HMe- eT MaKCHMyM B cnyqae Py H MHHHMyM B cnyqae Ac. 9KCTpe- Mbl HaxosTCS B o6naCTH 30 AI/U.C..

INTRODUCTION

A great number of papers has been devoted recently to the acidity of zeolites [1,2]. In contrast to acidic properties,much less attention has been paid to basicity [3,4].

EXPERIMENTAL

Zeolite samples were obtained by courtesy of Dr. H.K. Beyer. They were prepared from NaY zeolite by dealumination with then ion-exchanged for NH [5].

The flow-gravimetric technique [6] was used to measure the adsorption of py and Ac.

Table 1 Adsorption of pyridine and acetic acid on HY zeolite Si/AI a

N

N

NAI

NA1

py ac

U.C.

gcat. gcat. gcat. x 10 -20

2.3

58.2

30.3

8.98

20.9

2.46

55.5

28.7

8.65

16.7

6.6

25.3

13.0

6.91

4.6

48

3.9

2.1

0.24

3.6

a) Number of A1 atoms per U.C. was calculated from the results of chemical analysis [5]

78 SZANYI et al.

: DEALUMINATED ZEOLITES

RESULTS

The amount of py and Ac strongly bound on HY zeolites at 553 K can be seen in Table i. The adsorbed amount of both ad- sorbates is lower on zeolites containing less AI. However, if the number of adsorbate molecules related to the number of A1 atoms is plotted as a function of the A1 content (Fig. I) curves show different characteristics for py and Ac. The curve for py goes through a maximum and that for Ac through a mini- mum with extrema at about 30 Al-atoms/U.C.

Si/AI
4O 20
10
S
Ac
1.0
: 0.5 0 t
......
I
I
I"
I
0 20 ,;0 60
NAI/U.C.
Fig. I.

DISCUSSION

The acid strength of sites in zeolites depends on the Si/AI ratio. The cluster model provides an explanation for the varia- tion of the acid strength. According to the mode due to short range interactions the protonic acidity associated with an AIO;tetrahedron depends on the number of close A1 neighbors of the tetrahedron [i].

Another model applies the Sanderson electroneg- ativity equalization concept [7]. This model suggests that for faujasites of various A1 contents the charge on the protons,i.e. the acid strength of the Brnsted-acid sites increases con- tinuously as the A1 content decreases [8].

When the A1 concentration is very small, short-range in- teractions are negligible. After a critical Si/AI ratio the acid strength is supposed to become independent of the degree of dealumination.

For faujasite, the highest and constant acid strength region is predicted to be reached at Al-contents smaller than 28-30 AI/U.C.

[2].

We characterized the average acid strength of the sites by the average number of py molecules strongly bound on a site under fixed conditions. The results indicate that this value decreases if the A1 content decreases below 30 AI/U.C. One ex- planation for this unusual phenomenon may be that A1 atoms which can be less easily removed by a SiC14 treatment, are less accessible for py.

Infrared spectroscopic studies of adsorbed py verified that OH groups in close proximity of A1 atoms show the proper- ties of Brnsted type acid centers, however, in interaction with organic acid molecules the same sites exhibit the proper- ties of a Brnsted basic center [3]. Acetate ions are formed as a result of the reaction between the zeolitic OH groups and the adsorbed Ac molecules.

It has been shown by pyrrole adsorption measurements that while the acidity of zeolites in different cationic forms de- creases (in the sequence of Li > Na > K > Rb > Cs) their basic- ity increases [4]. Zeolites in Na or K form have amphoteric properties.

Our results snow that the number of adsorbed Ac molecules related to the number of A1 atoms varies according to an oppo- site trend with the A1 content of the zeolite as the number of adsorbed py. This strongly suggests that the acid strength of the sites decreases and, concomitantly,their base strength in- creases if the A1 content of the HY zeolite decreases in the range of 30 to O AI/U.C. Nevertheless,it does not seem proba- ble that although some of the sites are less accessible for py,other sites are more accessible for Ac. Further examinations are planned to find an explanation for the unexpected acid-base properties of the deeply dealuminated fau]asites.

80 SZANYI et al.

: DEALUMINATED ZEOLITES
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Answer: The study found that the adsorption of pyridine (py) and acetic acid (Ac) on dealuminated HY zeolites shows distinct behaviors depending on the aluminum (Al) content within the zeolite structure. Specifically, the adsorption ratio of py to the number of Al atoms reaches a maximum, while the ratio for Ac reaches a minimum at an Al content of approximately 30 Al atoms per unit cell (U.C.). This indicates that the acid strength of the zeolite sites decreases, and their base strength increases as the Al content drops below 30 Al atoms per U.C. This unusual behavior might be explained by the reduced accessibility of py to certain sites, possibly due to less easily removable Al atoms that are less accessible for py binding. In contrast, other sites might become more accessible for Ac binding, contributing to the observed opposite trends in acid-base properties.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
答案：研究发现，不同铝（Al）含量的处理过的HY沸石上吡啶（py）和乙酸（Ac）的吸附行为表现出显著差异。具体来说，在约每单位晶胞（U.C.）有30个Al原子时，吡啶与Al原子的数量比达到最大，而乙酸与Al原子的数量比达到最小。这表明沸石位点的酸强度降低，而碱强度增加，当Al含量低于每U.C. 30个Al原子时。这种不寻常的行为可能解释为吡啶对某些位点的可接近性降低，可能是由于较难去除的Al原子，这些Al原子对于吡啶结合的可接近性较差。相反，其他位点可能变得更容易被乙酸结合，导致观察到的酸碱性质的相反趋势。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
