<quotes>
[1] "During World War II, catalytic dehydrogenation of butanes over a chromia-alumina catalyst was practiced for the production of butenes."
[2] "Dehydrogenation employs chromia-alumina catalysts and, more recently, platinum or modified platinum catalysts."
[3] "Approaching equilibrium or near-equilibrium conversions while minimizing side reactions and coke formation."
[4] "In the dehydrogenation process using chromia-alumina catalysts, the catalyst is contained in a fixed shallow bed located inside a reactor that may be either a sphere, a squat vertical cylinder, or a horizontal cylinder."
[5] "The Houdry Catadiene process was used extensively for the production of butadiene, either by itself (n-butane to butadiene) or in conjunction with catalytic oxydehydrogenation of n-butene to butadiene."
[6] "The Catofin process technology is currently owned by S ud-Chemie and is offered for license by ABB Lummus."
[7] "A different approach to catalytic dehydrogenation was first introduced in the mid-1960s for the supply of long-chain linear olefins for the production of biodegradable detergents."
[8] "The work on catalytic reforming with noble metal (Pt) catalysts done in the 1940s by Haensel clearly demonstrated that Pt-based catalysts had high activity for the dehydrogenation of paraffins to the corresponding olefins."
[9] "Very importantly, it must be able to produce olefins in high yields over long periods of time without shutdowns."
[10] "The Oleflex process uses multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR."
[11] "The Pacol process consists of a radial-flow reactor and a product recovery section."
[12] "The Oleflex process for the dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene has also been investigated but, to date, the economics do not appear to be favorable because of the low equilibrium conversion and the need to operate at a pressure lower than atmospheric if a reasonable ethane conversion is to be expected."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Historical overview and chromia-alumina catalysts:
1. During World War II, catalytic dehydrogenation of butanes over a chromia-alumina catalyst was practiced for the production of butenes.
2. Dehydrogenation employs chromia-alumina catalysts and, more recently, platinum or modified platinum catalysts.
3. Approaching equilibrium or near-equilibrium conversions while minimizing side reactions and coke formation are important aspects in dehydrogenation.

Reactor characteristics and design:
4. In the dehydrogenation process using chromia-alumina catalysts, the catalyst is contained in a fixed shallow bed located inside a reactor that may be spherical, vertical cylindrical, or horizontal.
5. The Houdry Catadiene process was used extensively for the production of butadiene, either by itself or in conjunction with catalytic oxydehydrogenation of n-butene to butadiene.
6. The Catofin process technology is currently owned by S ud-Chemie and is offered for license by ABB Lummus.

Noble metal dehydrogenation catalysts:
7. A different approach to catalytic dehydrogenation was first introduced in the mid-1960s for the supply of long-chain linear olefins for the production of biodegradable detergents.
8. The work on catalytic reforming with noble metal (Pt) catalysts done in the 1940s by Haensel clearly demonstrated that Pt-based catalysts had high activity for the dehydrogenation of paraffins to the corresponding olefins.
9. It is very important for the process to produce olefins in high yields over long periods of time without shutdowns.
10. The Oleflex process uses multi-stage adiabatic reactors with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR).
11. The Pacol process consists of a radial-flow reactor and a product recovery section.

Ethane dehydrogenation:
12. The Oleflex process for the dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene has also been investigated, but the economics do not appear to be favorable because of the low equilibrium conversion and the need to operate at a pressure lower than atmospheric if a reasonable ethane conversion is to be expected.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
历史概述和氧化铝催化剂：
1. 在第二次世界大战期间，使用氧化铝-铬催化剂进行丁烷的脱氢化生产丁烯。
2. 脱氢化使用氧化铝-铬催化剂，并且最近使用铂或改性铂催化剂。
3. 接近平衡或接近平衡转化，同时最小化副反应和焦炭形成是脱氢化的重要方面。

反应器特性和设计：
4. 在使用氧化铝-铬催化剂的脱氢化过程中，催化剂包含在位于反应器内的固定浅床中，该反应器可以是球形、垂直圆柱形或水平圆柱形。
5. 哈德里迪安过程被广泛用于单独生产丁二烯，或者与催化异丁烯脱氢化为丁二烯结合使用。
6. 猎户座过程技术目前由S ud-Chemie拥有，并由ABB Lummus提供许可。

贵金属脱氢催化剂：
7. 在20世纪60年代中期，首次引入了一种不同的方法来供应长链线性烯烃以生产可生物降解的洗涤剂。
8. 1940年由海恩塞尔进行的催化重整工作证明了基于贵金属（Pt）的催化剂具有高活性，能够将烷烃转化为相应的烯烃。
9. 非常重要的是，该过程能够长时间生产高收率的烯烃，无需停机。
10. 老格雷克斯过程使用多级绝热反应器以及连续催化剂再生（CCR）。
11. 法尔科洛过程包括一个径向流动反应器和一个产品回收部分。

乙烷脱氢：
12. 对于乙烷到乙烯的脱氢化，老格雷克斯过程也进行了研究，但经济性似乎不具吸引力，因为需要在低于大气压的情况下操作以实现合理的乙烷转化率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
