I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


A misfit structure in the Co/Pt( ) system studied by scanning tunnelling microscopy and embedded atom method calculations Abstract We have performed scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) measurements of thin films of Co and CoPt alloys on Pt(1 1 1). In contrast to the interpretation of an earlier low energy electron diffraction investigation by Tsay and Shern [Surf. Sci. 396 (1998) 313] we find that the structure observed upon annealing a Pt(1 1 1) sample with a 2 ML (monolayer, ML) thick film of Co does not consist of a rotated Co film but rather of a CoPt alloy film with hexagonal areas of fcc stacking, single and double stacking faults, delimited by misfit dislocations (Shockley partial dislocations). Comparison of STM images with embedded atom method calculations confirms our model. The structure at the PtPtCo interface in our model is similar to that proposed by Henzler [Surf. Sci. 419 (1999) 321].
1. Introduction
Because of their suitability as magnetic or magneto-optical data storage medium, the magnetic and structural properties of CoPt thin films and multilayer systems have been investigated in detail in the recent past [1] ,[2] ,[3] ,[4] ,[5] ,[6] ,[7] ,[8] . One of the goals in such investigations is to relate the magnetic properties with the structural properties of the interface system, in order to, at a later stage, tailor make compounds with the desired magnetic properties. In addition, many of the structural properties of thin Co films on Pt single crystal surfaces are interesting from a basic surface science point of view.
It is for instance well known that Co films thicker than 1 ML (monolayer, ML) deposited at room temperature (RT) on Pt(1 1 1) exhibit a moir structure [2] ,[4] ,[6] . In low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), the diffraction pattern from the moir structure shows satellite spots due to the approximately 10% misfit between the Co film and the Pt(1 1 1) surface [6] . A schematic view of the corresponding LEED pattern is shown in Fig. 1 a. Since the Co film is oriented exactly as the substrate, the satellite spots appear on the line connecting the fundamental spots originating from the substrate.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. (a) Schematic LEED pattern obtained for a 2 ML thick Co film on Pt(1 1 1) deposited at RT [6] . (b) The same as in (a) but annealed at 700 K [6] . The satellite spots of the (0,0) reflex (hidden by the electron gun in the experiment) are not shown.
However, if a 2 ML thick Co film deposited on Pt(1 1 1) is annealed at temperatures between 650 and 750 K, a rotation of the satellite spots by 30 has been observed [6] as shown by the schematic LEED pattern in Fig. 1 b. This behaviour was explained in terms of domains of a rotated surface layer [6] , whereas an alternative explanation was given by Henzler [7] in which, instead of a rotation, a misfit model with domains of fcc and hcp stacking was put forward.
In this paper, we report on investigations of a 2 ML Co film on Pt(1 1 1) annealed at 700 K by the use of STM and embedded atom method (EAM) calculations. We show that the apparent rotation of the LEED satellite spots is not due to a rotated surface layer but rather to the existence of differently stacked domains separated by Shockley partial dislocations similar to the model proposed by Henzler [7] . However, the studies in the present report show that the orientation of the unit cell of the structure is unrotated with respect to the substrate, a fact that was assumed in neither Ref.
[6] nor in Ref.
[7] . The reason for the observation of rotated LEED satellite spots in Ref.
[6] is argued to be due to the observation of the second order diffraction spots rather than the first order satellite diffraction spots. This in turn may be explained by the close proximity of the first order satellite diffraction spots to the integer order diffraction spots on the LEED screen.
2. Experimental
The STM measurements were performed in a UHV chamber with a base pressure below 5×1011 mbar. All STM images were obtained in constant current mode with the sample negative. The Pt(1 1 1) sample was prepared in a separate chamber with a base pressure of approximately 1010 mbar. The sample was cleaned by cycles of 2 keV Ar+ sputtering followed by annealing at 1150 K. The cleanliness of the Pt(1 1 1) surface and of the Co prepared surfaces was checked by Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) with a cylindrical mirror analyser. No contaminants such as C and O could be observed within the detection limits. Co was deposited from a water cooled electron beam evaporator, the typical evaporation rate was 0.5 ML/min as measured by a quartz crystal micro balance. The error in Co coverage was estimated from repeated measurements to be less than 10% as determined from the ratio between the Co 773 eV and the Pt 237 eV Auger peak-to-peak signals.
3. STM Results and discussion
Fig. 2 a is a 100×100 nm2 STM image showing 2 ML of Co deposited at RT on the Pt(1 1 1) surface. The moir structure may clearly be seen in this image, the brighter areas in the structure corresponding to Co atoms close to on-top sites at the interface. The darker areas (lines) separating the brighter areas indicate Co atoms in hcp or fcc hollow sites and bridge sites of the Pt(1 1 1) substrate. The unit cell is indicated in Fig. 2 a (white rhomb). The moir structure has been discussed in detail elsewhere [4] , and it is known that the Co overlayer in this structure is not rotated with respect to the Pt substrate. The inset in Fig. 2 a shows the Fourier transform of the STM image. Since LEED is mainly sensitive to out-of-plane displacements, the Fourier transform of the STM data should appear similar as the LEED spots around the (0,0) spot, but also similar to the environment of the first order spots in Fig. 1 a. Comparing the inset in Fig. 2 a and the LEED pattern in Fig. 1 a we see that this is indeed the case. The distance between a fundamental spot and its surrounding moir spots (satellite spots) in reciprocal space corresponds to the cell size of the moir pattern in real space.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. (a) STM image (100×100 nm2) of a 2 ML thick Co film on Pt(1 1 1) deposited at RT (cf. Refs. [2] ,[4] ). The unit cell of the moir structure corresponding to the LEED pattern in Fig. 1 a is indicated. The inset shows the Fourier transform of the image (to reduce noise caused by the steps, the different terraces have been adjusted to the same height before Fourier transformation). (b) The same as in (a) but annealed at 700 K. The cell corresponding to the LEED pattern in Fig. 1 b is indicated by a plain rhomb, the larger true (unrotated) unit cell by a dashed rhomb. The inset shows the Fourier transform of the image (again after removal of the steps).
If this sample is annealed at 700 K the surface appears in STM as shown by the 100×100 nm2 STM image in Fig. 2 b. In the image, three different terrace levels appearing darker and brighter corresponding to lower and higher levels may be observed. It is clear that annealing has changed the surface structure on the medium height terrace as compared to the moir structure in Fig. 2 a. In fact, even though there is no 1:1 correspondence, the appearance of the surface on this terrace appears inverted, the pattern of small bright areas separated by dark lines is now transformed into small dark areas with bright lines in between. The cell corresponding to the rotated LEED pattern in Fig. 1 b is indicated with a small white rhomb in Fig. 2 b. Note that this cell is rotated by 30 as compared to the cell in Fig. 2 a from the moir structure. The inset in Fig. 2 b shows the corresponding Fourier transform. The six spots with the largest distance from the origin (center spot) correspond to the rotated LEED spots described in Ref.
[6] . These spots are at a slightly larger distance from the origin as compared to those of the moir structure because the 30 rotated cell is somewhat smaller than the moir structure cell. However, an additional set of six spots may be observed in Fig. 2 b. This set of spots appears closer to the center and aligned in the same direction as the moir spots of Fig. 2 a. Therefore, the resulting cell is larger than the 30 rotated cell as described above and has its sides parallel to the moir cell of Fig. 2 a. The larger unrotated cell is indicated in Fig. 2 b with a dashed rhomb. In real space, the area of the small rotated cell is 1/3 of the larger unrotated cell, indicating that the unrotated cell is the actual unit cell of the structure observed. In reciprocal space the rotated cell is actually formed by second order diffraction spots of the unrotated cell. This neatly explains the 30 rotation without having to resort to a rotated overlayer.There may be several reasons why the unrotated unit cell was not observed in LEED. First of all, the large size of the real (unrotated) unit cell means that its satellite spots are very close to the integer spots and thus easily lost in the glare of the integer spots. The unrotated spots in the Fourier transform are also somewhat weaker than the second-order (30 rotated) spots, and probably the same holds for the LEED spots. The underlying reason is the very small height difference between the three small hexagons (these will be identified as fcc, single- and double stacking fault areas below) that the true (large) unit cell consists of. Furthermore, the satellite spots are not very sharp because the periodicity of the pattern observed is far from perfect ( Fig. 2 b). One reason for this is the fact that the local Co coverage before the annealing differs due to the imperfect layer-by-layer growth [4] , another reason is the occurrence of step-flow during the anneal. As Co and Pt are forming an alloy when the sample is annealed [5] ,[8] , the resulting local alloy composition will differ if the initial local Co coverage differs. This in turn will result in different surface structures due to local variations of the different lattice constant of the alloy. The dashed line in Fig. 2 b indicates a border between two different areas on a terrace, above the line the initial coverage was probably different as compared to below the line. As a confirmation of what has been said above, in our own LEED system the satellite spots originating from the smaller 30 rotated cell were very faint and the true non-rotated cell was impossible to observe by LEED.
A close-up of the surface is shown in the STM image with atomic resolution in Fig. 3 a. One of the small 30 rotated cells corresponding to the rotated spots as observed in the LEED pattern is indicated in the STM image by full lines, while the true unit cell is indicated by dashed lines. The image clearly shows that the unrotated unit cell consists of three hexagons with different apparent height (brightness), again indicating that the 30 rotated cell is not the true unit cell of the structure. Since we cannot see the Pt below, we cannot directly see that the surface layer is unrotated, but we have never found any indications for a rotated overlayer such as domain boundaries expected for the 4.9 rotated overlayers assumed in Ref.
[6] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. (a) Close-up (17×17 nm2) of the structure in Fig. 2 . The rotated cell corresponding to the LEED pattern in Fig. 1 b is indicated with full lines, the true unit cell with dashed lines. (b) Coexistence of the same misfit structure and the moir pattern observed after annealing a 2 ML Co film at 680 K (image size 33×33 nm2; high-pass filtered for better visibility of the superstructure). Note that the protrusions (on-top sites) of the moir pattern are in positions equivalent to the corners of the dashed superstructure cell.
Fig. 3 a shows that the surface layer is a close-packed atomic lattice essentially without any dislocation. It therefore does not directly support the model proposed by Henzler [7] , where atoms with a local environment different from that of a hexagonal layer and dislocations are found. We must bear in mind, however, that the structure observed is found at a Co coverage of about 2 ML and after annealing, when a PtCo alloy layer of more than 2 ML thickness is expected to form [8] . It is therefore quite natural that the misfit accommodation between the Pt substrate and the PtCo alloy occurs below the first monolayer and the resulting defects are hidden below the surface.
We can indeed build a model based on a structure similar to that proposed by Henzler [7] below the surface and rotated 30. This is shown schematically in Fig. 4 . The unit cell of this model consists of three hexagons (domains), having plain fcc stacking, single, and double stacking faults, respectively (in dislocation theory single and double stacking faults are also called intrinsic and extrinsic stacking faults, respectively [9] ). The domains are delimited by lines of atoms in bridge sites. With the exception of the double stacking fault areas, this structure is equivalent to a moir pattern resulting from a simple superposition of two fcc lattices with different lattice constants. Both structures have areas of fcc stacking (ABCABC) and single stacking faults (ABC A, the second C layer of atoms is in hcp positions). Whereas a simple moir structure has atoms in energetically unfavourable on-top sites (ABC B), the misfit structure in our model has a double stacking fault (ABC ), leaving the uppermost atoms in the same position (B) as in a moir structure, but avoiding the unfavourable on-top sites. The structure shown in Fig. 4 could most likely be also used to explain LEED patterns observed in the case of the Pt/Ni(1 1 1) system [10] and other systems with 5% misfit.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. (a) Schematic top view of the misfit structure. The ridges in the STM images (subsurface Shockley dislocations) are represented by thick lines forming hexagons. (b) Section along [11 ] through the top-most layers of the misfit structure along the thin line in frame (a). Fat circles indicate atoms in the image plane, thin circles atoms 1/4 [ 10] behind. Inverted T symbols mark the cores of Shockley partial dislocations.
In the language of dislocation theory [9] the lines of bridge-site atoms delimiting the different domains are Shockley partial dislocations (Burgers vectors of type . The dislocation lines and their Burgers vectors are in-plane and perpendicular to each other (edge dislocations, as usual for misfit dislocations), and it is well known that Shockley partial dislocations delimit areas of different stacking. As the direction of the misfit dislocations is such that the surface has a smaller lattice constant than the bulk, it immediately follows from the strain field of the dislocations [9] that the surface bends upwards above the dislocations, as observed in the STM images (bright ridges between the different domains). The three directions of in-plane Shockley dislocations mutually annihilate where all three of them meet. Hence, there are no dislocations reaching the surface (except where the domain pattern is perturbed), explaining the perfect close-packed lattice of atoms we observe at the surface. In other words, the topmost layer of this model shows no defects any more, and one can stack additional layers onto the model shown in Fig. 4 without changing the appearance in STM (the corrugation above the dislocation will slowly decrease with increasing layer thickness, however). We expect that additional layers stacked on the model in Fig. 4 will usually follow the stacking sequence of the unfaulted fcc domains, as this continues the stacking of both the fcc and single stacking fault domains (indicated by the lines extending above the uppermost atoms in Fig. 4 b). It is also possible, however, that additional layers follow the stacking of the double stacking fault domain, which would then become a mere fcc twin boundary (stacking sequence ABCACBACB). In this case also the previous fcc domain would get a twin boundary, whereas the domain starting with a single stacking fault would convert to five layers with hcp stacking (ABCACACB). Due to the twin boundary energies and the energy required to form an hcp PtCo alloy we consider this version of the model energetically unfavorable.Since the true (unrotated) unit cell consists of three inequivalent hexagons (fcc, single and double stacking fault), we can now ask ourselves whether it is possible to differentiate between these three types of hexagons in the STM images. Most STM images show that one type of hexagon appears slightly smaller, brighter (higher) in the center and with a brighter rim, whereas the two other types of hexagons appear approximately equal. In Fig. 3 a the smaller and brighter hexagons are at the corners of the dashed unit cell. To find the correct assignment for these brighter hexagons we have taken STM images of the surface prepared at somewhat lower annealing temperatures, where the moir structure and the hexagons coexist ( Fig. 3 b). There we can observe that the brighter hexagons and the maxima (on-top sites) in the moir are found in equivalent positions, and one can also see some features which have to be classified somewhere between the protrusion of the moir pattern and a full-fledged bright hexagon. Since we have noted before that the on-top sites of the moir structure are replaced by a double stacking fault in the misfit structure discussed here, we can assign the brighter hexagons to the double stacking fault areas in our model. The energy of a double stacking fault is higher than that of a single stacking fault, therefore energy minimization nicely explains the somewhat smaller size of the brighter hexagons mentioned above. As elastic deformations of the substrate and film (mutual repulsion of the dislocations in the language of dislocation theory) counteracts the shrinking of the double stacking fault areas, the size differences between the three different hexagons are rather small.The size of the true (unrotated) unit cell as determined by atomically resolved STM images varies between 20×20 and 25×25 surface atoms (for films annealed at 700 K). The correspondence of our domain model to a moir model as mentioned above (on-top atoms at the interface replaced by double stacking fault) shows us that the misfit can be calculated from the (true) cell size as usual for a moir pattern of n×n surface atoms on (n1)×(n1) substrate atoms. The same result can be obtained from the Burgers vectors of the misfit dislocations. The misfit of the annealed overlayer with respect to the bulk is thus 4% to 5%, in good agreement with the 5% misfit of a 3 ML film determined by surface X-ray diffraction [8] after annealing at the same temperature. Assuming Vegard's rule (linear dependence of the lattice constant on composition) and further assuming that the overlayer has the same lattice constant as a corresponding bulk alloy results in an overlayer composition between Pt40Co60 and Pt50Co50. Deviations from this simple calculation will mainly have two reasons: (i) The energy associated with the formation of dislocations will prevent full relaxation of the overlayer, leading to a slightly larger lattice constant of the film. (ii) Surface stress will tend to contract the overlayer. As these two effects will partly cancel, we believe that the above estimate of the composition of the overlayer should be rather good. This estimate is further supported by the fact that the cell size of the misfit pattern of the annealed films studied here is roughly twice the cell size of the moir structure of the RT films consisting of pure Co (12.7×12.7 Co atoms on 11.7×11.7 substrate atoms). This means that due to alloying, the misfit of the films annealed at 700 K is half that of pure Co films.The same misfit structure as discussed above can be sometimes observed after annealing at lower temperatures (e.g., Fig. 3 b), in a few cases even locally in place of the moir pattern after RT deposition without further annealing. In these cases the size of the unit cell is smaller, indicating a larger misfit, and, hence, a higher concentration of Co in the upper layers.We should finally mention that the dislocation structure observed is not perfect but the domain pattern shows irregularities such as missing or distorted cells ( Fig. 2 b, left third of Fig. 3 a). In a pattern of misfit dislocations, such irregularities can be associated with dislocations reaching the surface [11] . Related to these defects, we also observe small rotations or distortions of the overlayer. As Fig. 3 a shows, the sides of the dashed unit cell do not perfectly coincide with the close-packed rows of the atomic lattice. Since our misfit structure is equivalent to a moir pattern, even the largest deviation of 510 between the pattern and the atom rows correspond to a very small rotation of the overlayer with respect to the substrate (0.20.4).
4. Simulation calculations
Further information may be gained from EAM calculations. As sufficient experimental data for fcc cobalt were not available to construct an EAM potential for Co we have used the potentials developed by Ritz et al.
[12] for the PtNi-system, and we use the Ni potentials for Co. This approach is justified as Co and Ni have very similar atomic sizes and also the other relevant properties of the two metals, being neighbors in group VIIIb of the periodic table, are expected to be sufficiently similar. The model that we have used is that of Fig. 4 , with 576 (=24×24) atoms in each layer of the five Pt substrate layers, 599 atoms in the first interface layer (the layer above the lower dislocation symbols in Fig. 4 b) and 625 (=25×25) atoms in the topmost layer of Fig. 4b . The slab was terminated with one additional 625-atom layer. The composition of the 599-atom layer was chosen as Pt25Co75, that of the two topmost 625-atom layers Pt50Co50, with a random mixing of Pt and Co.
The heights of the atoms in the topmost layers resulting from relaxing the slab described above are shown in Fig. 5 as a greyscale image to allow easy comparison with the STM image ( Fig. 3 ). We find that the appearance of the STM image is reproduced by the simulation extremely well. The simulation confirms all details, such as the bright and broad ridges around the double stacking-fault domains, whereas the ridges between the fcc and single stacking-fault domains appear darker and almost completely disappear in some places. Also the height of the brightest ridges with respect to the darkest parts of the unfaulted or single-stacking fault domains is about 0.50.6 Å in both the STM images and the simulation. We have also done the same calculation for a slab capped by one more Pt50Co50 layer and find a very similar image.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. First monolayer of an embedded atom simulation of the misfit structure (2×2 simulation cells shown). As in STM images, the greyscale represents the height of the atoms.
The calculation cannot be used to determine the relative sizes of the three domains, however, as this is fixed by the number of atoms chosen for the interface layer. Our simulation was based on the assumption of equal size of all three domains, and, hence, does not account for the fact that the double-stacking fault domains are actually somewhat smaller than the other domains.
5. Moir structure versus stacking fault structure
Finally, we have to discuss why RT deposited films usually form a moir pattern whereas the structure presented in this work forms only after annealing to 700 K, in spite of the energetic advantage of a double stacking fault over the on-top sites of the moir structure. This may have three reasons:(i) The structure presented in this work is mainly found in films with roughly 5% misfit, whereas the moir structure develops at a misfit of almost 10%. If the misfit is doubled, the density of dislocations and, hence, the energy of the dislocations per area increases by a factor of four. On the other hand, the energies of the stacking fault areas as well as that of the on-top areas do not depend on the misfit as long as these areas account for a fixed fraction of the surface. At high misfit, the structure with the hexagons of dislocations around the double stacking faults is therefore less favourable compared to the moir pattern where no dislocations are necessary around the on-top sites. Additional contributions to the energy strongly increasing with increasing misfit will come from the junctions of three Shockley partial dislocations ( Fig. 4 a), since the dislocations are not in the same plane (see Fig. 4 b).
We should also note that the structure observed will not remain stable at a misfit significantly lower than that observed. In such case the dislocation energies as well as the energies of elastic deformation will become small as compared to the stacking fault energies. Therefore, the unfaulted (fcc) areas expand while the faulted areas shrink and become triangular, finally resulting in a structure as observed in Ref.
[11] . The structure discussed in the present paper is therefore only stable at intermediate misfit values. (ii) A moir structure yields optimum misfit accommodation in the case of a chemically sharp interface, where the lattice immediately switches from the substrate lattice constant to that of the film. Such a sharp interface is expected for RT deposition. The misfit structure discussed in the present work has one intermediate layer (with dislocation cores above and below, see, Fig. 4 b), where the number of atoms is also between that of the substrate and that of the upper layers of the film. This structure is therefore better suited to accommodate the misfit in case of a more gradual variation of the composition, where the intermediate layer has a composition and, hence, lattice constant between that of the pure substrate and film materials. Such a gradual interface is expected to form by diffusion when annealing the film. (iii) A simple moir structure can be built up layer by layer, it only requires limited mobility of the atoms. The complex misfit structure with its dislocations and stacking faults is certainly more difficult to build, as the atoms attaching to the islands during growth will not automatically take the places required to continue the dislocation structure. For example, a dislocation in an island will never form parallel to and close to its edge. If a dislocation is required at this position it must form during a later stage of growth, rather far behind the edge. Such processes may be difficult or impossible at low temperatures, where the only diffusion process allowed is adatom diffusion. In the case of RT deposition of Co on Pt(1 1 1) dislocations in the first monolayer can glide at RT (Ref. [3] , also note the frizzy appearance of some dislocations in Fig. 2 b of Ref. [4] ). In this system also the formation of the moir structure needs some restructuring during growth as the atom density of the first monolayer changes significantly when the second monolayer grows and the moir structure forms [4] . We therefore believe that kinetic limitations in the growth of Co on Pt(1 1 1) at RT are not the main factors hindering the formation of the misfit structure presented this work.
6. Conclusions
We have shown that the structure of a 2 ML thick Co film on Pt(1 1 1) deposited at RT and then annealed at 700 K does not consist of a rotated overlayer but rather of a misfit structure based on a model similar to that proposed by Henzler [7] . The structure, which accommodates the 5% misfit of the PtCo alloy film with respect to the Pt(1 1 1) substrate, is characterised by hexagonal domains of fcc stacking, single and double stacking faults, separated by Shockley partial dislocations. A comparison between STM images and EAM simulations confirms our model. Whereas a moir structure is favored in the case of large misfit and a chemically sharp interface, the double-faulted misfit structure presented in this work is favored at medium misfit values and if the lattice constant varies more gradually, with a layer of intermediate composition between the substrate and the film.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 