Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). The size of Pt particles significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single catalysis experiment using a TEOM/GC system. Reaction mechanisms involve common surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in initial selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane under specific temperature and pressure conditions. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity have led to research on earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' higher surface area. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also enhance catalytic performance and coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalysts and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size adjusts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. PDH, executed at high temperatures, produces propene for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, regenerating through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques remove coke deposits, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor co-feeding, which significantly reduces coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, resulting in high selectivity and stability at high temperatures. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production, involving a strongly endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high propane conversion, also promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which increases their lifetime. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based ones, and the use of microwave irradiation to reduce energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, are promising strategies to enhance process efficiency and mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts prominent in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration combats coke via chlorine-air combustion. Pt catalysts are favored for selectivity and durability, but coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to reduce coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and coke formation. This structural ordering prevents Pt and Zn segregation, improving catalyst stability and efficiency by prohibiting coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable (111) surface displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active is needed. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The catalyst retains its structure and size, demonstrating high thermal stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their activity, though selectivity is improved by adding Sn. Coke formation on Pt catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Hydrogen reduces coke precursor formation, minimizing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen decreases both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The number of PDH installations is growing globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the US is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, designed for continuous operation. Regenerated catalysts complete cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. Challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems can be derived from single experiments, revealing activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking to C1, C2, or form coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration, like thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions, can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have a higher coking rate due to larger surface area, accelerating deactivation. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is crucial. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80% and catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's activity can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, dropping conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are crucial but promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu as a promoter can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in the Oleflex commercial process. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to prevent coke from covering catalysts and blocking active sites, maintaining efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, with a molar ratio of Pt/M = 1, disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further improving stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt3 sites. Modifying PtGa with Pb to block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. Achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation is possible with PtGaPb. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are demonstrated by retaining small particle sizes and intermetallic structure. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga contributing to this effect. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by adding Sn as a promoter. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene adsorption and polymerization. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and catalyst deactivation by inhibiting coke precursors but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies offer an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects the industry's shift to more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies, spurred by high-energy demands, low selectivity of traditional processes, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under specific conditions, with the catalyst's life span maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, while catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days is crucial. High temperatures, while necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing propylene supply shortfalls. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke content. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles promoting more coke. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is caused by CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) produces propene by removing hydrogen, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly enhance propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke reduces catalyst activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene formation and low deactivation rates, with regeneration achieved through oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which reduces deactivation and extends catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (CrOx) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH severely impacts catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. These ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption, further enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first two CH activations while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial for economic conversions, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, enhance propylene desorption, and prohibit further dehydrogenation, improving selectivity and stability. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, making it an on-purpose technique. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction globally, driven by the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane and the industry's search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The reaction, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously for 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, coke formation at high temperatures reduces catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Comprehensive TEOM/GC systems offer insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones enhance CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploration of earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Dopants and suitable supports enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Under high temperatures, strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. The critical challenge is to weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's activity can be tuned by adjusting its crystallite size, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Reaction conditions, such as high temperatures, are crucial for PDH efficiency. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with its ability to regenerate, make it a preferred catalyst in the CATOFIN process, minimizing costs and maximizing propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor to PtSn catalysts maintains low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C, whereas its absence increases coke content to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for PDH. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Key reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with low deactivation rates. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for propane conversion but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with platinum-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalyst performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs addresses high reaction temperature challenges. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles prevent coke formation by promoting propylene desorption and maintaining structural ordering, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propylene over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts, though effective, face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. This modification improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates catalyst deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their activity. However, Pt's selectivity to propylene is improved by adding Sn as a promoter. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels to mitigate coking. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH installations are expanding globally. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with continuous operation and a 5-10 day catalyst regeneration cycle. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking to C1, C2, or coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 is determined by the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their costs and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering high activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with crystallite size controlling active site concentration. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to remove coke deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic reaction requiring temperatures of 550-700°C for high propane conversion. High temperatures, however, promote side reactions and coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Promoter elements like Sn are used to extend the lifetime of Pt-based catalysts by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts shows promise for future commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to reduce energy consumption and improve PDH at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are crucial. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite high selectivity and durability, Pt catalysts face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are pivotal for high-temperature reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. These ensembles improve stability by facilitating propylene desorption and preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Industry seeks stable catalysts for PDH that can withstand high temperatures without deactivation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to improve propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts to enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, improving selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhance propylene output. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing coke formation rate is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its deactivating effect can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days to counteract coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. Strategies include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges such as the cracking of long chain hydrocarbons and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke formation. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or further crack into C1, C2, or surface carbon. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but expensive and hazardous, prompting research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering durability and high activity. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, controlled by adjusting crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. This industrially relevant catalyst outperforms Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration to remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Key reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by 90% selectivity and over 120 hours of stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which extends their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. The process requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production, utilizing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) with a molar ratio of Pt/M = 1 is a significant advancement. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as stable active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propene, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. Pb modification significantly enhances stability and selectivity. Continuous, highly selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. PtGaPb retains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, demonstrating high thermal stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by the catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C, while boosting conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and economic operation of large dehydrogenation units. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to minimize deactivation cycles and enhance propylene output. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15, to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals facilitate electron transfer to Pt, decreasing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation but not removing existing coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and hydrogen's dual role in decreasing formation and deactivation effect are critical insights.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production due to market conditions and its exclusive olefin yield, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction globally, driven by the shift to cheaper shale-based ethane and the petrochemical industry's pursuit of more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke. This significantly impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration, which complicates the process and increases costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Particle size affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Using a TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with small particles favoring cracking and large particles favoring dehydrogenation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing alternative catalysts with higher coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity (60-80%) and catalyst stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, with activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. High temperatures around 550-625 degrees Celsius promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2 shows high activity and selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can be minimized by using alternative catalysts like ZrO2, which has lower coke formation rates and higher durability, and by employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn to extend their lifetime. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4, 5, 6). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7, 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10, 11). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst performance (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability, are employed in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a critical challenge, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are developed to address these issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles prevent coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, enhancing catalyst performance and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has a stable (111) surface with isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation is achieved. PtGaPb retains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's larger atomic radius, which inhibits diffusion into PtGa. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn as a promoter to enhance propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rate and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is expanding with numerous new installations. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking is driven by economic factors and dwindling oil reserves. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to increased coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being common but expensive or hazardous. Recent research highlights promising, less costly, and non-toxic iron-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking, and catalyst deactivation is due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, challenging selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate this, with selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for stability, CeO2 promotion for oxygen mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants extends catalyst use time. Partially reduced TiOx enhances Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using propane to produce propene, is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene production. ZrO2 offers a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process. High temperatures around 550-625 degrees Celsius promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2's high activity and selectivity towards propene production make it a preferred catalyst. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state, with the loss of activity not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving an endothermic conversion of propane to propene. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but can lead to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts include the addition of promoter elements like Sn, which has been shown to extend catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, it requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are used, with platinum favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, degrading performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have also provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability. These ensembles promote the initial dehydrogenation of propane to propene while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving efficiency. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] readily promotes propene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical industry faces challenges like high-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes. PDH uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking can be obtained using TEOM/GC systems. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing alternative catalysts with higher coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity and offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; using ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction and minimizing coke formation. This strategy ensures higher activity and durability, contributing to cost minimization in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, and the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation, a major challenge that reduces catalyst efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion, but this leads to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability, addressing the critical issue of coke formation on Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes like Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly affecting performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are crucial, with [PtZn4] ensembles serving as key active sites. These geometry-isolated, electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] promote the initial propane dehydrogenation steps while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, significantly enhancing selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed and isolated, are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites, with the Ga3 moiety supporting the isolated Pt1 atom. For PDH, the Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius, which inhibits diffusion into PtGa. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to improve propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and enhance propene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene yield, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, like Li, Na, and K, or using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, to reduce coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the search for more economical feedstocks. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while ideal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity have led to research on earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying Pt-based catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms also enhance catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, is efficient due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. High temperatures (550-625°C) promote dehydrogenation, while ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, improving catalyst durability and efficiency. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration to remove coke, restoring activity and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, typically using PtM alloys as catalysts under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst shows 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration achieved through oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but also promote coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Strategies to mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts include using promoter elements like Sn, which increases catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, can enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are essential. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, are favored for their selectivity and durability but face the challenge of coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and selectivity. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene, thus mitigating coke formation and maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. PtGa, with its stable (111) surface, displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. However, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and inhibits further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversion but accelerate side reactions, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, such as enhanced desorption of surface-bonded propylene. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene strategies further improve selectivity and stability, with first-principles calculations predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can mitigate coke formation while preserving activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling operating conditions to minimize coking. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies offer an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the industry's shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, spurred by high-energy demands, low selectivity of traditional processes, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while essential for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration helping mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering high activity and selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for chemicals, plastics, and detergents. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with regeneration techniques, address coke formation, improving overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, utilizing PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs show high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which reduces deactivation and extends catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C due to its endothermic nature (Quote 2). Catalysts are categorized into metal and metal oxide types, with platinum and chromium oxide being the most common (Quote 3). Pt-based catalysts, notably in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air (Quote 4, 5). Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability in PDH (Quote 6), but coke formation significantly affects performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 11), alloying Pt with metals like Sn (Quote 12), and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) enhances selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation. Structural ordering in IMAs also prevents Pt and Zn segregation, further improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for side reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining high conversion and selectivity for propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter for better propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major issue. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can also mitigate coking while preserving activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    