Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke selectivity. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 is determined by the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and enhances stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active sites can be controlled by adjusting crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures due to its endothermic nature, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are critical. Catalyst types, such as Pt/Cu SAAs, enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, demonstrating high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but also promote coke formation, which can deactivate Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as demonstrated by the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. The development of atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs addresses these issues. These SACs disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability. This is achieved by prohibiting coke side reactions and improving stability through structural ordering, which prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying it while keeping Pt1 sites active is needed for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650 °C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial for conversion, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, accelerating deactivation. To mitigate this, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke formation. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is noted, although it cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene instead of a mixture of products, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can modify catalytic performance, extend catalyst use, and facilitate coke migration from active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalysts and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt-based alternatives. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, improving conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and PtCu, determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn can mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly degrading performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism, highlighting the complex network of PDH reactions leading to coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are pivotal for high-temperature stability and propene selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure enhances desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability and preventing Pt and Zn segregation, thus addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a potential solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks threefold Pt, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity (>30% conv., >99.6% sel.) for 50 h at 600 °C. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga contributing to this stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, utilizing Pt-based catalysts for their activity, though selectivity can be improved by adding Sn. Coke formation on Pt catalysts causes deactivation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom catalysts, such as atomically dispersed Pt, which enhance selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles significantly improve surface-bonded propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a favored method for propene production, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Its on-purpose nature yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. PDH installations are expanding globally, influenced by the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under specific conditions, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while essential for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Major issues include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to more coke. Comprehensive TEOM/GC systems provide insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration helping mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts through size, shape control, alloying, and support selection improves selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell structures lower propylene adsorption and increase activation energies, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, which cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH operates at high temperatures, around 550-625°C, with ZrO2 offering an alternative to Pt-based catalysts, which suffer from coke formation leading to deactivation. ZrO2-based catalysts can regenerate in situ, removing carbon deposits, and have shown higher activity and durability. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are critical. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity and selectivity. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration achieved through oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. To mitigate this, promoter elements like Sn are added, enhancing catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for improved efficiency and lower energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins ([4], [5]). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation ([7], [9]). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity ([10], [11]). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity ([12], [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or using Cu, Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These sites, with isolated and electron-rich Pt, enhance the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This significantly improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. The structural ordering of PtZn IMAs also prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, ensuring stable active site structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke. Stable PDH catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts meet the global demand for propylene. High temperatures cause severe deactivation, necessitating catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on propylene desorption vs. side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but can lead to over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site promotes further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts to enhance propylene selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can minimize coking while preserving activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, seeking more economical feedstock. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a solid oxygen carrier or hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single catalysis experiment using a TEOM/GC system. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80% and catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and employing coreshell catalysts for enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst use.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering industrial relevance. High temperatures (550-625°C) are typical for PDH, with reaction conditions impacting efficiency. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability under high-temperature conditions, with excellent regeneration potential through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn to increase their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with platinum-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, are pivotal. These structures enhance propene selectivity and stability by isolating active Pt sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates the initial C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. This ordered crystalline structure also ensures the stability of active sites at high temperatures, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene requiring high temperatures, which can lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting the global demand for propene production. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering is inevitable under high-temperature conditions, necessitating continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is to use single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites available for reaction achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius, which prevents its diffusion into PtGa even at 600°C.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene. Coke formation on Pt catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. To mitigate this, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene output. Catalyst design can also be improved to reduce coke formation while maintaining activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, to lower coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the U.S. is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The process is continuous, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures conducive to olefin yields also promote coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single experiment using TEOM/GC systems. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger particles promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives. Iron-based materials show promise. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges, as strong adsorption leads to coke formation. High temperatures exacerbate this, with propylene selectivity around 60-80% and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, demonstrates high efficiency due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, which cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with improved durability and in situ regeneration capabilities through propane/propene interaction. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; employing ZrO2 mitigates this issue, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Optimal reaction conditions, such as high temperatures, are crucial for maximizing efficiency and selectivity. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures due to its endothermic nature, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's (CeO2) redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with a 2.8wt% increase without it, affecting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment without chlorine, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are critical. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu. Key reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure, 520°C temperature, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst shows 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Microwave irradiation is explored to improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, PDH is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts during PDH significantly degrades performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial. Despite challenges, PDH remains a promising route for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address high reaction temperature challenges by improving propene selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where the isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene production. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation and coke formation, significantly improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also prevent coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb to block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active improves selectivity and stability. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, PtGaPb/SiO2, demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting third-stage reactions, minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and selective propene production at high temperatures. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are demonstrated by retained particle sizes and structure. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, favored for meeting growing demand. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues and deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn to Pt enhances propylene selectivity. To tackle coke formation, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve propylene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles notably enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and are optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to its low cost. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical industry faces challenges like high-energy demands and low selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years managed by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges like cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration helping mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate this include rational Pt surface structure design, weakening propylene adsorption, and modifying catalysts by controlling Pt NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Adding Sn enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with higher activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Measures to slow down coking include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst's initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be improved with promoter elements like Sn, increasing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used. Pt-based catalysts, employed in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, but high temperatures can reduce selectivity and stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. Structural ordering also prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propene production. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and minimizes coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by the catalyst bed, direct fuel, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter to enhance propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. This affects catalyst lifetime and regeneration costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Using TEOM/GC systems can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being traditional but expensive or toxic options. Recent research highlights promising iron-based catalysts as earth-abundant and environmentally benign alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, reduce carbon deposition, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size impacts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts offers industrial durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. High-temperature PDH, around 550-625°C, is crucial for efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity, coupled with oxidative regeneration techniques, ensures sustained catalyst performance in propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like Pt sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation that prevents Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability at high temperatures, demonstrating high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH process. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation during PDH significantly degrades performance. At high temperatures, intermediates and propene can further react, leading to coke that obstructs active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts enhance selectivity and stability by inhibiting coke formation. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, while preventing further dehydrogenation of propylene. This significantly improves selectivity and stability by prohibiting coke side reactions. The surface [PtZn4] ensembles also improve stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving high conversion and selectivity for 96 hours at 600°C without deactivation. The catalyst shows high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition enhances propylene selectivity. To tackle coke formation, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and enhanced catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to enhance propylene productivity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn, alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen diminishes its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production due to current market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's search for more economical feedstock. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The process is continuous, with a cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Key challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis using TEOM/GC systems reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being traditional but expensive or hazardous options. Recent research highlights promising, less costly, and benign iron-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and selectivity, while suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance stability and reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with higher activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further minimize coke formation include optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, which blocks active sites and hinders the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus preventing coke formation. This improves propylene desorption and stability by structurally ordering Pt and Zn atoms, mitigating coke side reactions and enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showcasing outstanding stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, attributed to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius, preventing diffusion into PtGa. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the late 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, necessary for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration; mitigating strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn as a promoter to enhance propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve propene selectivity by enhancing desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles have shown 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can minimize coke formation while maintaining activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen decreases both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more efficient conversion technologies, the petrochemical industry faces challenges like high-energy demands and low selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, but high temperatures favor coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges due to cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to address coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (around 520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, extending their lifetime. Research is exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the challenge of coke formation and enhancing the direct dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's favored due to natural gas's abundance, ensuring low-cost and feasibility. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, utilizing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a critical challenge, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, with a molar ratio of Pt/M = 1, are significant. These SACs disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. This structure also facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene and prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures without deactivation. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, above 600°C, are critical for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, often improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts to enhance selectivity and stability, minimizing side reactions. Single-atom catalysts, particularly Pt on Cu nanoparticles, significantly improve propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding high-purity olefins. With dozens of new PDH installations globally, the process uses PtSn catalysts under specific conditions. Catalysts maintain activity for 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock highlights the industry's search for more economical and efficient technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing propylene supply gaps left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges with cracking of long chain hydrocarbons and coke formation, leading to reduced selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Deactivated catalysts require frequent regeneration, increasing operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher rates of coking and coke formation. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they are costly and hazardous, respectively. Recent research highlights promising iron-based catalysts as alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation, a critical challenge. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size and shape, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration, enhancing performance. Novel coreshell catalysts improve efficiency and precious metal utilization. Selecting supports modifies performance, and TiOx increases electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation under specific conditions, influenced by catalyst type. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active sites can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, crucial for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles, causing migration and coalescence, is a major deactivation cause. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. PtSn/CeO2 deactivated catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (around 520°C), atmospheric pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, essential for high conversion, also promote coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to increase their lifetime. Co-based catalysts are being researched for their potential efficiency and commercial viability. Microwave irradiation is explored to reduce energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Catalysts are categorized into metal (Pt) and metal oxide (CrOx), with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial processes. However, coke formation significantly degrades Pt catalysts' performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites. These geometry-isolated, electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] promote the initial and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. They also inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving stability and prohibiting coke side reactions. The ordered structure of [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa can be described as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage, enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). This size effect significantly influences coke content, with smaller particles causing a two orders of magnitude increase in coke deposition. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for maintaining activity, selectivity, and stability, as frequent regeneration increases process complexity and costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while reducing undesired side reactions, prolonging catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Understanding the role of Pt particle size and coke behavior is essential for optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity lead to research on earth-abundant and benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active sites can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. PDH, conducted at high temperatures (550-625°C), is crucial for the chemical industry, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and employing oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature (520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio (1:1), are critical. Catalyst types, like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an effective industrial route for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used. Pt-based catalysts, employed in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation on Pt catalysts, a major challenge, reduces performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs addresses high reaction temperature challenges by improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where the isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene production. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation and coke formation, significantly improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further preventing coke formation and maintaining the structural integrity of the catalyst via ordered Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, favoring activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is managed by temperature adjustments to maintain activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    