Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include cracking and coke formation on catalysts, affecting selectivity and necessitating frequent regeneration, increasing operational costs. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, with Pt particle size controlling coke formation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Strategies involve optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to balance CH and CC bond activation, crucial for selectivity to C3H6.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently yields propene from propane, with temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though research seeks cost-effective, non-toxic alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts impairs activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include phosphate use and regeneration techniques, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, leading to coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, and TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, excels due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that efficiently cleave C-H bonds, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and minimizes coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency on Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 mitigates coke by regenerating in situ through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications, particularly the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and regeneration ability, making it cost-effective for producing propene for chemicals, plastics, and detergents.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, mitigating coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content with water vapor at 680°C, versus 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining an atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions like temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, along with catalyst type, significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively address coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures, which degrades performance. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing longevity. Research on alternative catalysts and lower-temperature PDH methods aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. Promoters are crucial for improving catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process for propene production, operates at temperatures above 500°C, employing Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production utilizes atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, where [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, enhancing propene selectivity by promoting C-H cleavage of propane. This structure prevents coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation, mitigating side reactions and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation and enhances catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt catalysts for high activity and enhanced by Sn for selectivity, is crucial for propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. To mitigate coke, single-atom catalysts, such as Pt on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene, are utilized, minimizing noble metal usage, improving catalytic properties, and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby decreasing coke formation and its deactivating effect. Understanding coke formation mechanisms is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to enhance propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The petrochemical industry, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity, seeks economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for consistent activity. Operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the continuous system faces the challenge of coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges like cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst performance. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that minimize cracking and prolong catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, which favors cracking reactions. Particle size significantly affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, effectively removing hydrogen from propane. Temperature and pressure are critical for selectivity. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but alternatives like iron are explored due to cost and toxicity concerns. A key challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and efficiency. Strategies to mitigate this include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Alloying Pt, selecting supports, and using coreshell catalysts improve selectivity and stability. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' structure and electronic properties enhances propene selectivity. Coreshell catalysts offer lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst optimizes active site concentration for enhanced propene selectivity, offering an industrially viable alternative to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's higher activity and durability mitigate coke formation, regenerating in situ through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. PDH, conducted at high temperatures, is crucial for chemical industry applications, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques manage coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and Pt/Cu, is pivotal for propene production. Key reaction parameters include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types dictate selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably reducing coke formation by improving propylene desorption, ensuring high selectivity and stability under high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing high-selectivity, anti-coking catalysts is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like Cu addition can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. As quote 16 highlights, 'Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.'", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, employed in Oleflex, offer high selectivity and durability but face challenges with coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs enhance selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, which facilitate initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving propene desorption and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry, with severe deactivation under high temperatures necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying active metals with inactive ones enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation, and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Single-atom catalysts, like Pt on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene, mitigate coke formation, reduce noble metal usage, and improve catalytic properties by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, thus boosting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rate and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect, as studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. have shown.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by energy demands, selectivity issues, and oil prices. The endothermic reaction's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Catalyst regeneration, though crucial, increases process complexity and costs. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior during the reaction, as observed in studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt and Cr catalysts being critical despite their costs and toxicity. Research into earth-abundant alternatives, like iron-based materials, is ongoing. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly hampers efficiency; employing strategies such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration can mitigate its impact, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by smaller Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure and weakening propylene adsorption are critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation and enhance selectivity. High temperatures intensify coke formation, affecting propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts through size control, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as a superior catalyst, offering enhanced activity and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated sites cleave C-H bonds, with activity tunable by adjusting crystallite size. PDH's efficiency and selectivity are influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies include in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and designing optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's carbon deposit removal, enhancing propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn, PtZn, and notably Pt/Cu SAAs, is pivotal for propene production. Key reaction conditions include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates optimally at 550-700°C. High temperatures boost conversion but also promote side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn reduce coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, converting propane into olefins under high temperatures due to its endothermic nature (Quote 7). This process faces challenges from thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, necessitating the development of catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, featured in UOP's Oleflex process, regenerate via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite Pt's high selectivity and durability, coke formation at high temperatures hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen and alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites enhance thermal stability and selectivity. These ensembles promote initial C-H cleavage, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and facilitate propylene desorption. Structural ordering prevents Pt/Zn atom segregation, crucial for catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising but require continuous regeneration due to severe deactivation. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Incorporating single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Continuous and highly selective propene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts augmented with Sn to enhance selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include employing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene further refines the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields specific olefins, unlike mixed-product methods, and can produce polymer-quality olefins. The industry is shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is heat-dependent, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss of activity due to coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Pt particle size significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coking rates; smaller particles are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking on larger Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being key. Common catalysts Pt and Cr, though effective, are costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A major efficiency challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which can be mitigated by using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Coke formation on Pt, leading to catalyst deactivation, is a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational design of Pt surface structure, addition of promoters like Sn and CeO2 to enhance stability and reduce coke deposition, and using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration from active sites to the carrier. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, selecting appropriate supports, and using dopants enhance selectivity and stability. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Tailoring Pt catalysts and supports is essential for efficient PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing catalysts like ZrO2, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency, by allowing in situ regeneration through carbon deposit removal, improving durability and reducing costs. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion efficiency. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, reducing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining an atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium (Quote 1). Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium (Quote 2). PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts used commercially (Quote 3). Sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation, can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt (Quote 143). Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state (Quote 174). Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial (Quote 181). Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier) (Quote 203). PtSn/CeO2 catalysts show high selectivity and can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination (Quote 170).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure playing key roles. Pt/Cu single atom alloys exhibit high stability and anti-coke capability, maintaining activity for over 120 hours at 520°C under atmospheric pressure. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, decreasing efficiency, but successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Co-based catalysts offer improved properties, addressing coke formation and boosting process efficiency, showing promise for commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures, which leads to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges like deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke formation and enhance stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. (Quote 4) PDH is considered a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) However, the high reaction temperature required for PDH leads to coke deposition. (Quote 9) Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high activity and stability, but (Quote 11) significant deactivation from coke formation and low propylene selectivity constrain their performance. (Quote 15) Strategies to mitigate coke formation, like adding Cu, improve process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in Oleflex, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs are critical, offering enhanced thermal stability and isolated Pt1 sites that promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures causes coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are determined by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms in Pt-based catalysts inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to the challenge. PtGaPb, with threefold Pt blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Pt-based noble metal catalysts, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, critical for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt-based catalysts, augmented with Sn, enhance propylene selectivity. However, coke formation remains a significant challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts mitigate this issue by promoting propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve high propylene selectivity, and doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene, making it profitable. Dehydrogenation technologies yield high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and are on-purpose techniques. The petrochemical industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The system operates continuously, regenerating catalysts every 5-10 days to mitigate the impact of coke formation, which occurs at high temperatures optimal for olefin yields. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates than larger particles (21 nm). This impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration and increasing costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, effectively removing hydrogen from propane under critical conditions like temperature and pressure. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, though limitations spur the search for alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate and catalyst regeneration techniques are crucial for maintaining performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, impacting efficiency, occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates. Rational design of Pt surface structure improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with propylene selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx improves selectivity and extends catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers high activity and selectivity over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's ability to cleave C-H bonds and adjust active site concentration through crystallite size optimization enhances propene yield. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a challenge, but using ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene. Optimal crystallite size design further reduces coke formation. Industrial PDH applications, requiring high temperatures (550-625°C), benefit from ZrO2's durability. Oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts, like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are pivotal. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) notably improve propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even at elevated temperatures. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability and resistance to coke formation, maintaining high propene selectivity (90%) under atmospheric pressure at 520°C. It can be regenerated through oxidation-reduction cycles, effectively addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates at high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts extends their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH economically converts propane to propene, but its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, featured in UOP's Oleflex process, face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, adjusting support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and enhancing propylene desorption. The ordered structure prevents Pt and Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst efficiency and preventing coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially isolated Pt atoms, can inhibit undesired side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and alloy catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa can solve this challenge. The Pt3 site requires modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at 600°C for 50 hours, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for noble metal economy and catalytic enhancement, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propene selectivity. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. To mitigate coking, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke, and can mitigate the deactivating effect of coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. It yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-grade quality, an on-purpose technique. The industry is expanding with numerous PDH installations, shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and declining oil reserves. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and regenerating every 5-10 days. High temperatures, ideal for olefin production, also encourage coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive analysis of activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal propene production method, with temperature and pressure as key reaction conditions. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, have cost and toxicity issues, leading to research on earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which hinders efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Interaction with TiOx reduces propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's efficiency is controlled by adjusting crystallite size, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but ZrO2 regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, mitigating coke formation. Industrial applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, maintaining efficiency without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process, converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is critical for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts notably boost selectivity and stability, achieving over 90% selectivity under atmospheric pressure. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impairs efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAA enhances propylene desorption, reducing coke buildup. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH shows promise for commercialization and energy efficiency, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex facing coke formation challenges. Strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn, Cu, Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA boost selectivity and stability by facilitating propane's C-H cleavage, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and promoting propylene desorption. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] prevents Pt and Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites, where the Pt3 site is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, showing 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Platinum-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, utilizing Pt/Sn catalysts prone to deactivation by coke formation. Mitigation strategies, like single-atom catalysts, Pt on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, enhance propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts central to Oleflex processes. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to lower coking rates. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding and controlling coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene instead of a mix of products, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The endothermic reaction's duration depends on the catalyst bed's heat content. The system operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the performance deterioration caused by coke formation at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation, increasing regeneration costs. Research aims to enhance DHP rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles accumulating more coke. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on catalyst performance. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation, acting as a promoter.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal propene production method, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. A significant challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which hinders efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and reducing selectivity. High-temperature conditions exacerbate this, with propylene selectivity around 60-80% and poor catalyst stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures can increase selectivity toward propylene. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst use by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized with ZrO2, which outperforms Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx in activity and durability. ZrO2's unique ability to cleave C-H bonds and regenerate in situ through propane/propene interaction effectively mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency on Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite sizes further minimize coke formation, enhancing ZrO2's cost-effectiveness and industrial application in propene production through regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Coke formation is categorized into quick deactivation and steady state, with activity loss not simply correlating to coke amount. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, significantly influence the process. Catalyst types, particularly Pt/Cu single atom alloys, mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, and achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, faces challenges due to high temperatures causing side reactions and coke deposition, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation from coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to enhance efficiency and address coke formation, a critical challenge in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, thanks to abundant natural gas resources (Quote [4]). However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, which causes deactivation (Quote [7]). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote [9]). Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote [10], [11]). Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote [16]). This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the key challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Pt and CrOx catalysts are crucial, with Pt-based catalysts favored in UOP's Oleflex process for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly affects performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures can reduce selectivity and stability. Pt1M1 IMA SACs with isolated Pt1 sites enhance thermal stability, while [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. The ordered structure prevents Pt and Zn segregation, further enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, are critical for industrial applications. Severe deactivation under high temperatures requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits undesired side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa offers a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, keeping Pt1 sites active for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high conversion with excellent propene selectivity at 600°C without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius preventing diffusion into PtGa. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition enhances propylene selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, improving selectivity and stability, and inhibiting side reactions. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is a significant propylene production method. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. It yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, highlighting the need for strategies in catalyst regeneration and coke mitigation for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, involving propane's hydrogen removal. Catalyst choice is pivotal, with traditional Pt and Cr options presenting cost or safety issues. Iron-based catalysts emerge as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but phosphate use and coking-resistant catalyst development mitigate this challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, causing poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts, adding Sn for regeneration, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage, using dopants to prevent sintering, and employing coreshell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, modifies catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 catalysts, excels due to its high activity, durability, and superior resistance to coke formation compared to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate efficient C-H bond cleavage in propane, enabling in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes are crucial for minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial applications benefit from ZrO2's coke resistance, reducing costs in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor; without it, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated by their ability to revert to an atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, crucial for propene production, operates under atmospheric pressure, 520°C, with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtM alloy catalysts are employed, with Pt/Cu SAAs notably boosting propene selectivity to 90% and stability, effectively tackling coke formation, a key efficiency hurdle. Coke reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs enable regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles, sustaining high performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene, with high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and lower-temperature PDH methods aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for economical propene production, converting propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of Cu promoters, which enhance catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, thereby improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in industry for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalysts' performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs enhance thermal stability and selectivity, isolating active sites to prevent coke formation and further dehydrogenation side reactions. This promotes propylene desorption and maintains catalyst stability, crucial for efficient propene production, as structural ordering in [PtZn4] prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are vital for industrial PDH, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a viable solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This demonstrates improved stability and selectivity, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum-based, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures above 600°C, necessary for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt catalysts, is crucial for propene production, with Sn enhancing selectivity. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and doped graphene to optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes are key but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism needing further study. Optimizing conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles and designing efficient catalysts can boost propene output. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, and using supports with weak acidity, can reduce coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, mitigating catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can lessen its deactivating effect, as studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. have shown.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations, driven by abundant cheap natural gas liquids like ethane, shifts the petrochemical industry towards more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is endothermic, requiring continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst, active for 2-3 years, maintains dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, necessitating strategies for mitigation and improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Challenges include cracking and excessive coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance PDH while minimizing side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include understanding its role as a promoter for selectivity improvement by deactivating sites active for cracking. The selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with large Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an efficient propene production method, influenced by temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, with interest in cheaper, earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to prevent deep dehydrogenation and coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as a durable catalyst offering high propene selectivity. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances active site concentration, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene yield. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; ZrO2 mitigates this, enabling in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Industrial PDH applications include propene production, with strategies to combat coke formation involving ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, preventing coke buildup from 0.5 to 2.8wt%. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, despite negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions and improving catalyst composition. Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably mitigate coke formation by enhancing propene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, tackling the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process needing high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. (Quote 4) PDH is considered a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) The endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction necessitates high temperatures, resulting in coke deposition. (Quote 9) Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity and thermal stability. (Quote 11) However, significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation constrains their performance. (Quote 16) Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters such as Cu, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] active sites, boost selectivity and stability by facilitating initial CH cleavage of propane and preventing further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus inhibiting coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst performance and structural integrity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is essential for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for adequate yields, which leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand, yet high temperatures cause severe deactivation. The balance between propylene desorption and side reactions determines selectivity and stability in PDH. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to coke formation. Isolating Pt atoms enhances selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, demonstrates outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity for years. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts improve selectivity and stability, while single-atom catalysts optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propene selectivity, showcasing advanced catalyst performance. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation, effectively mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its deactivating effect can be mitigated by hydrogen, which decreases the rate of coke formation but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is favored over traditional processes due to high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The PDH market is expanding with new installations. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures is a challenge, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for on-purpose propylene production, addressing supply shortfalls. However, challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, reducing selectivity and causing deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (e.g., 3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (e.g., 21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with small Pt particles favoring CC bond activation (cracking) and large particles favoring CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under specific temperature and pressure conditions, utilizing Pt and Cr catalysts. Earth-abundant alternatives are explored due to cost and toxicity concerns. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. To mitigate coke, promoters like phosphate suppress coking, and catalyst regeneration techniques are employed.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, caused by coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a significant efficiency barrier. Rational construction of Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is essential to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, leading to coke formation and poor catalyst stability (60-80% propylene selectivity). Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, offering lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production optimizes selectivity through controlled crystallite size, offering an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, as seen in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity, addressing the efficiency reduction caused by coke on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu SAA, is crucial for propene production, achieving 90% selectivity under high-temperature conditions. Specific reaction conditions, including high temperatures and gas ratios, are essential. Pt/Cu SAA's stability under high temperatures effectively mitigates coke formation, a significant efficiency challenge on Pt-based catalysts. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles enhances process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting side reactions and coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts, which degrades catalyst performance. Incorporating Sn promoters mitigates coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures. This endothermic process can lead to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propene selectivity and anti-coking properties is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke formation and lower propene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt catalysts can mitigate coke formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts prominently used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with other metals like Sn, and modifying supports. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, with isolated Pt1 sites and enhanced thermal stability, address these issues. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation through structural ordering, thus enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are vital for industry, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, modified with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, improves selectivity and stability in PDH. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, PtGaPb/SiO2, demonstrates high conversion and selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, with single-atom Pt catalyzing CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction uses heat from catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. CCR technology stabilizes noble metal catalysts, enabling large-scale, high-pressure production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction globally, reflecting its growing importance. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, affecting the balance between CH and CC bond activation, which determines C3H6 selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, influenced by temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, with research exploring alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, challenging selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, adding Sn for regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting supports like TiOx to modify electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke. PDH, conducted at high temperatures, is crucial for the chemical industry, producing propene for various applications. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for sustaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation treatment, maintaining an atomically dispersed state without chlorine, as evidenced by thermogravimetric analysis and elemental analysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst types affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn extend catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, addressing a critical challenge. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption, offering strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane from abundant natural gas reserves into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges with significant coke formation and low propene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance the stability and selectivity of Pt catalysts. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The addition of Cu to Pt catalysts suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving the efficiency and regeneration of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are essential, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex favored for selectivity and durability. Coke formation significantly impacts catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and controlling catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters high-temperature challenges, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Stable SACs, particularly Pt1M1 IMA, are essential, with [PtZn4] ensembles serving as active sites that promote initial C-H cleavage, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles improve propylene desorption, prevent coke formation, and ensure structural ordering of Pt and Zn atoms, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising strategy. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, achieves high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, minimizing coke formation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production in PDH at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, necessary for economic conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Platinum-based noble metal catalysts, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity over years. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt-Sn catalysts boosting selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, like Pt on Cu nanoparticles, enhance performance. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of Pt atoms, suggesting that single Pt atoms with a positive charge are more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation, thus mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is also crucial. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation and the deactivating effect of the coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions and operates as an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding propene. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, with a global increase in PDH installations. The shift from naphtha to ethane as feedstock is driven by their availability and cost. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. Coke formation at high temperatures impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    