Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Common Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include phosphate use and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts faces challenges due to coke formation, which deactivates the catalyst. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying the Pt surface structure for better selectivity and coke control, weakening propylene adsorption to suppress deep dehydrogenation, and controlling reaction conditions. Alloying Pt with metals, selecting appropriate supports, and using dopants like Sn and CeO2 enhance catalyst stability and reduce coke formation. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. These modifications aim to increase propylene selectivity and catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions where coke formation is prevalent.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, excels as a catalyst for PDH in propene production, offering high efficiency and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Its active site concentration enhances propene selectivity, and its in situ regeneration by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene mitigates coke formation, a critical issue for Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite size design further minimizes coke. ZrO2's superior activity, durability, and regeneration capabilities make it a cost-effective choice for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production, employs Pt/Cu SAAs to boost propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can hinder efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs help mitigate this issue. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, leading to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH shows promise for commercialization and improved energy efficiency, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins, favored due to abundant natural gas. High temperatures required for the endothermic PDH lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, are preferred over Cr-based ones due to lower coke formation rates. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt catalysts, though highly selective, face the critical challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen and alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, aiding in the development of more efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, specifically PtZn, enhance thermal stability and selectivity. [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus enhancing selectivity and stability by preventing coke formation. This structure facilitates propylene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation by coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting propylene demand. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is effective, and Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains, shows high performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enable stable activity for light olefin production under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt/Cu nanoparticles for improved propylene desorption, and doped graphene to adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene yield. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 can weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that boost DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, impacting catalyst efficiency. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, with efficiency hinged on temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though cost-effective and less toxic options like iron are being explored. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Phosphate is effective in suppressing coking, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability. CeO2 promoters enhance oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. The critical challenge is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using propane's C-H bond activation, is optimized with ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it a viable alternative to Pt-based catalysts. In the CATOFIN process, ZrO2 mitigates coke formation by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs. Its high activity and durability, coupled with oxidative regeneration techniques, combat coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production. Pt/Cu SAAs achieve 90% propene selectivity and high stability, effectively reducing coke formation, a major efficiency impediment. Catalyst regeneration via oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, requires high temperatures for high conversion rates, which also promote side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' performance. Pt/Sn catalysts mitigate coking, enhancing lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH shows promise for commercialization and energy efficiency, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins, especially with abundant natural gas resources. However, high temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, impacting catalyst efficiency. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach inhibits propylene adsorption, diminishing the possibility of coke formation and suppressing the cracking reaction towards the formation of lighter hydrocarbons, while a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses methane formation, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impairs Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insight into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles within Pt1M1 IMA catalysts enhance efficiency and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that cause coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are vital for industry. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with a stable (111) surface and isolated Pt sites, is a solution. However, the Pt3 site's activity for further reactions requires modification. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, shows outstanding PDH performance at high temperatures, achieving high conversion and selectivity without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat supplied by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propene production, surpassing conventional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts boost propene selectivity, yet coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene desorption, prevent further dehydrogenation, and achieve high selectivity. Doped graphene optimizes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting improved activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, addressing coke formation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity can reduce coking rates. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation selectively yields high-purity olefins, with global PDH installations increasing. The US petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane, seeking efficiency to reduce energy demands and improve selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures boost olefin yields but promote coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency, as coke can act as a promoter to improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though interest in alternatives like iron exists. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical issue. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates, impacting stability. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, adding Sn for enhanced catalyst regeneration, CeO2 for increased oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration, thereby addressing the challenge of strong propylene adsorption leading to byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an efficient method for propene production, with ZrO2 as a durable catalyst that controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial applications focus on chemical industry needs. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating chlorine's need.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is critical for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation, which degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing their longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, leveraging abundant natural gas resources to convert propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the process necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst, thus improving PDH efficiency. [4] [7] [9] [10] [16]", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored for selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process. However, coke formation hinders catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, which blocks active sites and degrades efficiency. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, boosts propene selectivity and stability by facilitating initial dehydrogenation, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, ensuring surface-bound propylene desorption, and preventing coke buildup to preserve catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke. Stable catalysts are vital for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on balancing propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, critical for conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing the growing demand with Pt-Sn catalysts enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies like atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles mitigate coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. Doped graphene optimizes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity like SBA-15, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts to enhance propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields pure olefins, unlike mixed products from other methods, and is expanding globally with numerous PDH installations. The process uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures a steady product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yield also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and oxygen carrier addition, crucial for preserving catalyst activity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, indicating its role as a promoter.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method sensitive to temperature and pressure. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have cost and toxicity issues, leading to research on earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; using phosphate can suppress coking, and regeneration techniques help mitigate this challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Modifying Pt-based catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst use. Under high-temperature conditions, strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation and poor catalyst stability (60-80% propylene selectivity). Alloying Pt with metals and using coreshell catalysts can improve performance and precious metal efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as a catalyst, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and activity, making it superior to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, crucial for the CATOFIN process. To further minimize coke, strategies include optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor utilization, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas coke content surges to 2.8wt% without it, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is difficult, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) is pivotal for propene production, achieving 90% selectivity and stability under high temperatures. These SAAs mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke's efficiency impact on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, especially with Sn, extend catalyst lifetime by minimizing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, as evidenced by the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses the formation of lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, valued for selectivity and durability, face a challenge from coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage in propane. These ensembles prevent further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, mitigating coke formation and improving propylene desorption. Structural ordering segregates Pt and Zn atoms, further inhibiting coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are critical for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Single-atom Pt catalysts, particularly PtGaPb, offer high selectivity and stability by selectively blocking Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third one, minimizing coke formation. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production is achieved at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enable stable activity for light olefin production at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt-based catalysts is crucial for propene production, with Sn addition enhancing selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts improve propylene selectivity and stability, reducing noble metal usage. Positively charged single Pt atoms on doped graphene are the most active and resist deep dehydrogenation, mitigating coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to reduce the rate of formation and deactivating effect of coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane highlight its economic appeal. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles enhance CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production where propane loses hydrogen, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being key for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to combat this include using promoters to prevent coking and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke, deactivating the catalyst. Small Pt clusters, with larger surface areas, accelerate coking and deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and controls coke. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, sans chlorine, preserving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts typically requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, impacting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) notably mitigate coke formation, a significant efficiency hurdle, by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability, even under high-temperature conditions, with a low deactivation rate, ensuring activity through successive oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, needing high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts curbs coking, prolonging their lifespan. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to boost efficiency, tackle coke formation, and enhance PDH process efficacy, reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins, supported by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability are being explored, as seen in the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures exceeding 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, as these have been shown to reduce coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts significantly enhance efficiency and selectivity by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further propylene dehydrogenation. These catalysts prevent coke formation, ensuring stability and avoiding side reactions, which is critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a high-temperature process for propylene production, faces significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but struggle with thermal stability. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows exceptional catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, essential for continuous and highly selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those augmented with Sn, excel in propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on these catalysts is a critical challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, such as Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, have been shown to significantly enhance propylene selectivity to 90% while effectively mitigating coke formation, thus improving catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism not fully understood. To mitigate coke formation, Pt can be modified with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking rates. Using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, weakens propylene adsorption, further reducing coke formation. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation rates. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to enhance propene output and reduce dehydrogenation cycles.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. It excels in yielding high-purity olefins, unlike processes with low selectivity. The industry is transitioning from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The PDH reaction, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. The system cycles every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, requiring frequent regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the supply gap from conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, suggesting strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are vital for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, face cost and toxicity issues, leading to research on earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly hinders activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters such as phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, and CeO2 promotion for reduced coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage in alkanes, enhancing propene selectivity through controllable active site concentration. In PDH applications, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing durability in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting effective strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by Pt/Cu SAAs, is pivotal for propene production, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation for high selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, sustaining high propylene formation and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting both conversion and coke formation, a challenge for Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH shows promise in mitigating coke formation and reducing energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, with natural gas availability enhancing its feasibility (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst (Quote 16). This approach addresses the critical challenge of coke formation in PDH, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored in industry for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades Pt catalyst performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and using transition metals. Controlling support properties and Pt catalyst size also helps. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles of Pt1M1 IMA catalysts are critical, enhancing propene selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane and preventing further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates propene desorption, avoiding coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures risks catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt sites, is a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This catalyst stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, retains small particle sizes, and shows resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, with high propylene selectivity minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under pressure. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling support acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles improve propene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation for high selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicts enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, effectively mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are key but suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process yields a specific olefin optimized for polymer-quality purity, reflecting the industry's shift to more economical feedstock like shale-based ethane. Using a PtSn-based catalyst under pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, the catalyst's activity is maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a cycle of catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge that necessitates frequent regeneration to sustain activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A comprehensive analysis method reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), whereas larger ones are selective for CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have issues with cost and toxicity, leading to exploration of alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, proceeds via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is driven by coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Rational construction of Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx enhance catalyst performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, ZrO2 serves as an efficient catalyst, facilitating homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes. Its coordinatively unsaturated sites, controlled by crystallite size, mitigate coke formation—a critical PDH challenge—by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, enhancing propene selectivity and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor keeps coke content on PtSn catalysts below 1wt% after 6 hours at 680°C, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, employs PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and PtCu, which determine selectivity and activity. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces a critical challenge: high temperatures required for high conversion also promote coke formation, deactivating Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. The process, being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Metal (Pt) and oxide (Cr) catalysts are used, with Pt catalysts in Oleflex for regeneration via chlorine-air combustion against coke. Pt catalysts, despite selectivity and durability, face deactivation from coke, a byproduct of high-temperature reactions blocking active sites. Mitigation strategies include hydrogen co-feeding, Pt alloying with Sn or other metals, support modifications, and controlling Pt size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability. This structure facilitates propylene desorption and prevents coke formation, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are vital for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Alloying Pt with Sn and using single-atom catalysts are effective strategies. The PtGa-Pb modification, where Pb blocks threefold Pt, retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, improved by Sn promoters. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant deactivation factor. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for optimized noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rate and its deactivating effect, though it cannot remove formed coke. Studies suggest coke formation is structure-sensitive, highlighting the importance of catalyst design and operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price dynamics. Dehydrogenation offers exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity challenges. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. Continuous systems operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, as evidenced by the performance difference between small and large Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, effectively removing hydrogen from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, though their costs and toxicity prompt exploration of alternatives. A significant challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to sustain catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, reducing efficiency. Small Pt clusters accelerate deactivation due to higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High temperatures strengthen Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. To improve selectivity, Pt catalysts' structures are modified, including size control, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution in regeneration, enhancing stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, reduce carbon deposition, and facilitate carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Catalysts show superior PDH performance, consistent with findings. Dopants enhance selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst life. Suitable supports modify metal catalysts' performance for PDH. Electron transfer from partially reduced TiOx to Pt atoms increases electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using ZrO2 as a catalyst offers superior activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances active site concentration, boosting propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, making it a preferred catalyst in industrial applications. High temperatures promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2's high selectivity towards propene production further supports its use. Strategies to address coke formation include oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, chlorine-free, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with coke amount or nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys enhance propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures for high conversion, but this also promotes side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures shows promise in improving process efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The process, being endothermic, requires high temperatures that lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing Pt-based catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face issues with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, addressing the need for catalysts that can withstand high temperatures and maintain efficiency over time.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, with Pt and Cr oxide as primary catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in Oleflex, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with chlorine-air, while controlling Pt size, especially single atom catalysts, shows promise in enhancing reactivity and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, are critical. These electron-rich Pt1 sites enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting propylene over-dehydrogenation. The [PtZn4] ensembles prevent coke formation, improving stability by avoiding coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation, thus addressing the key challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site in PtGa is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promotion for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and enhanced catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is pivotal for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes facing rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking rates, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations globally reflect industry shifts influenced by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. The PDH process, using a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts maintain dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Regeneration cycles, completed every 5-10 days, are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates, impacting selectivity to C3H6. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure critical for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking, such as using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, are essential for enhancing catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt structures, adding Sn for improved regeneration, using CeO2 to boost oxygen mobility, selecting appropriate supports, and employing dopants to prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance, while TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst for propene production is efficient and durable, with coordinatively unsaturated sites facilitating homolytic C-H bond cleavage. Optimal crystallite size design minimizes coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity, making ZrO2 superior. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. PDH operates at high temperatures for dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice critical for efficiency and selectivity. Oxidative regeneration techniques enhance ZrO2's performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation for regeneration without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production, employs PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which enhance propene selectivity and stability by effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts diminishes selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs sustain high propene selectivity. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity, tackling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures for optimal conversion. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be enhanced with Sn to reduce coking and extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, tackling the critical issue of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a cost-effective method for propene production, leveraging abundant natural gas resources (Quote 6). However, the process's endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures (Quote 7), leading to rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation (Quote 8). Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability (Quote 10), are preferred but face significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity (Quote 11). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16), improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or using Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt size, especially single atom catalysts, shows promise. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalysts boost selectivity and stability by facilitating the initial C-H cleavage of propane and preventing further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus inhibiting coke formation. This is achieved through promoting propylene desorption and maintaining the structural integrity of Pt and Zn atoms, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires stable catalysts due to severe deactivation from coke formation at high temperatures. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h without performance loss, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts facing selectivity and deactivation issues due to coke formation. Adding Sn enhances propylene selectivity. To address coke formation, strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, achieving 90% propylene selectivity by improving desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a pivotal commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly enhances global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, central to Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role is crucial in suppressing coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and dependence on operating conditions highlight the need for controlled reaction environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions and optimized for polymer-quality olefin purity. Its growing global installations reflect its importance. The shift to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by its high availability and lower cost. The petrochemical industry adapts to high-energy demands and low selectivity by seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, with catalyst activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. A PtSn catalyst operates under optimal conditions for olefin yields, but high temperatures also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use, preserving catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for higher DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond active sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by temperature, pressure, and catalyst choice. Earth-abundant iron-based catalysts are explored due to the toxicity and cost of traditional Pt and Cr catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigate coke formation, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on smaller Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, which lowers propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports to improve selectivity. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an alternative to Pt-based catalysts. By controlling ZrO2's crystallite size, propene selectivity is enhanced. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes. Industrial PDH applications, such as propene production for the chemical industry, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is complexly related to coke amount and nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's conversion effect. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production under optimal conditions of 520°C and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively addressing coke formation, a significant efficiency barrier. Despite coke buildup diminishing selectivity and activity on Pt-based catalysts, Pt/Cu SAAs sustain high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at high temperatures. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting conversion and coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, especially with Sn promoters, effectively minimize coking, extending catalyst lifetimes. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH suggests enhanced efficiency and lower temperatures, promising for future commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which causes deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. (Quote 4) PDH is seen as a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) The reaction is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures. (Quote 9) Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity and thermal stability. (Quote 16) Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, valued for selectivity and durability, face challenges from coke formation, which can be mitigated by co-feeding hydrogen, alloying with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalysts enhance propene selectivity and stability by facilitating initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation, thus preventing coke formation. These catalysts also promote propylene desorption, further enhancing stability and avoiding Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits these reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Alloying Pt with Sn further improves performance. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa addresses this challenge. The Pt3 site in PtGa is active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable these sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Heat for the endothermic reaction is sourced from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for the process, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propene selectivity. Doped graphene can fine-tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output. Catalyst design can reduce coke formation while maintaining activity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 can lower coking rates. Coking rate is influenced by operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique is optimized for polymer-quality olefins, with global PDH expansion reflecting a shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The dehydrogenation step, heat-dependent, uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1-3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while conducive to high olefin yields, promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for on-purpose propylene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surprisingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking reactions, as evidenced by studies showing higher coke content on smaller Pt particles. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with larger Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, as observed in experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr catalysts, while effective, have high costs and toxicity, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as using phosphates and catalyst regeneration, help maintain process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to enhance Pt-based catalysts include controlling size and shape, alloying, and selecting appropriate supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, while CeO2 enhances oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density, hindering propylene adsorption, and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity, with high temperatures around 550-625 degrees Celsius promoting dehydrogenation. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, making it a cost-effective alternative in the CATOFIN process. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production, employs PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and notably Pt/Cu SAAs, which boost propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency detractor. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting conversion but also coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to sintering. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing longevity. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, aiming to boost efficiency and reduce energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into a valuable petrochemical. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke and reduced propene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of Cu, which suppresses the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of Pt catalysts. This improves the efficiency of the PDH process and facilitates catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a critical challenge: coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. These approaches aim to improve efficiency and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalysts in Pt1M1 IMA form significantly enhance efficiency and stability. These catalysts facilitate initial C-H cleavage of propane, improving propylene desorption and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, which reduces coke side reactions, thereby enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production operates at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising options. Severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the catalyst retaining its structure and demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt/Sn catalysts enhancing selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation. Doped graphene strategies optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism requiring further study. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess electrons, and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation's rate is highly dependent on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction, reflecting a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    