Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets enhancing DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes causing higher coke content. Catalysts with smaller particles are very active for cracking reactions, while larger particles are more selective for dehydrogenation reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is removed from propane under critical reaction conditions like temperature and pressure. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but earth-abundant alternatives like iron are explored. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, from CH3CC* and C*, is a major challenge. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is essential to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and enhances stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, a critical chemical industry process, involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. By controlling ZrO2's crystallite size, propene selectivity is enhanced, making it a preferred catalyst. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant efficiency challenge, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield. Optimal crystallite sizes are crucial for minimizing coke formation and maximizing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition at elevated temperatures. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation treatment, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Optimal conditions include high temperatures and specific propane-to-nitrogen ratios. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene selectivity and stability, achieving 90% selectivity for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, maintaining activity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as it inhibits propylene adsorption and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial PDH processes due to their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance thermal stability and selectivity by inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and prohibiting coke side reactions, significantly improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, with Pb-modified PtGa achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene, under superatmospheric pressures. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face the challenge of coke formation leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to economize on noble metals and boost propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, is predicted to enhance activity while reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Alkali metals provide excess mobile electrons to Pt, reducing coking rates, while supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, weaken propylene adsorption and suppress polymerization. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a lucrative propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene of polymer-quality purity. Globally, numerous PDH installations are under construction. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply gaps, with challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, though earth-abundant alternatives are explored. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and efficiency. Strategies include phosphate use to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor stability. Weakening propylene adsorption strength and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx can extend catalyst use and facilitate coke migration from active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2 catalysts, which offer superior activity and durability compared to Pt-based alternatives. ZrO2's efficient control over active site concentration boosts propene selectivity, making it a preferred choice in industrial applications. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which hampers efficiency. However, ZrO2 mitigates this issue by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, effectively minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition to <1wt% on PtSn catalysts at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, impairing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, avoiding chlorine use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn and PtCu influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for high conversion rates. However, this can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting their performance. Promoter elements like Sn can mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as evidenced by the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are essential, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches are crucial for improving catalyst regeneration and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are crucial for high-temperature stability and selectivity. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure enhances propylene desorption, improving stability and preventing Pt and Zn segregation, addressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, retaining high conversion and selectivity at 600 °C for 50 h. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with thermodynamic stability and size mismatch contributing to this stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt-based catalysts, is pivotal for propene production, with Sn addition enhancing selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts hinders efficiency. Single-atom Pt catalysts, like atomically dispersed Pt on Cu nanoparticles, boost selectivity and stability, achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene modifies the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby reducing dehydrogenation cycles and enhancing propylene productivity. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, highlighting the structure-sensitive nature of coke formation and its dependence on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene. Its on-purpose technique yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade purity. The global expansion of PDH installations is driven by the shift to cheaper shale-based ethane in the US. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705°C temperatures, with activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously, requiring catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates and minimize side reactions, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size impacts activity and selectivity, with smaller particles (3 nm) being more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation, significantly influenced by particle size, can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies aim to balance CH and CC bond activations for improved C3H6 selectivity. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face cost and toxicity issues, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like phosphate use and regeneration mitigate this, maintaining process effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts through size, shape control, alloying, and support selection improves selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell structures lower propylene adsorption and increase activation energies, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 catalysts is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an alternative to Pt-based catalysts, which suffer from coke formation leading to deactivation. ZrO2-based catalysts can regenerate in situ, removing carbon deposits, and have shown higher activity and durability. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts is pivotal for propene production. Optimal conditions include a temperature of around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively managing coke formation, a critical challenge that can impair catalyst activity and selectivity. These SAAs achieve 90% propene selectivity with outstanding stability for over 120 hours, and their regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates optimally at high temperatures, which enhance conversion but also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding promoter elements like Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting propane into olefins ([4], [5]). The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation ([7], [9]). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity ([10], [11]). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity ([12], [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial method for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Primary catalysts include Pt and Cr oxide, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or using Cu, Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical. These electron-rich Pt sites enhance propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The structural ordering of PtZn IMAs prevents coke formation and ensures stable active site structures, promoting propylene desorption and preventing coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial application. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metals, particularly Pt, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale light olefin production at high selectivities under pressure. Strategies to mitigate coke include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, enhanced with Sn, improve propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability while reducing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles increase propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene can optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism requiring further study. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can minimize coking while preserving activity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable, driven by favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, seeking more economical feedstock. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a solid oxygen carrier or hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, leading to reduced selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research efforts are directed at developing catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while curtailing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity than larger particles (21 nm), resulting in accelerated coking rates and increased coke formation. Particle size profoundly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing significantly higher coke content. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, leading to cracking reactions, whereas larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 hinges on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method involving propane's hydrogen removal. Reaction conditions, especially temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their cost and toxicity prompt the search for better alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. To combat this, promoters like phosphate can suppress coking, and regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include rational Pt surface structure construction for enhanced selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and employing coreshell catalysts for enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst use.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, optimizing active site concentration and enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering industrial relevance. High temperatures are typical for PDH, with reaction conditions impacting efficiency. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, necessitating high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated in the study.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, influencing selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability under high-temperature conditions, with effective regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures (550-700°C) for high conversion rates, but this can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by mitigating coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with platinum-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA catalysts are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability by isolating active Pt sites. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates initial C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for propene production. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on balancing propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites available achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke, leading to outstanding stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius preventing diffusion into PtGa even at 600°C.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene. High temperatures above 600°C, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate this include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, enhanced with Sn, improve propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts causes deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include atomically dispersed Pt for enhanced selectivity, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the U.S. is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The process is continuous, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures conducive to olefin yields also promote coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while curbing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single experiment using TEOM/GC systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method involving propane's hydrogen removal. Reaction conditions, particularly temperature and pressure, are pivotal for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their costs and toxicity prompt exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impairs efficiency, necessitating strategies like phosphate use to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, affecting efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure and employing strategies like adding Sn, using CeO2, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration enhance selectivity and control coke formation. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst for propene production is highly efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and offers an industrially viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with improved durability and in situ regeneration capabilities. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; employing ZrO2 mitigates this issue, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures due to its endothermic nature, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. CeO2's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with a significant increase to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are critical. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts, like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Optimal reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Microwave irradiation is explored to improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial method for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts during PDH significantly degrades performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial. Despite challenges, PDH remains a promising route for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance propene selectivity and stability by leveraging [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These sites promote propane's C-H cleavage, boosting propene output while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, ensuring high selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb to block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active improves selectivity and stability. Pb-modified PtGa demonstrates high conversion with excellent propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. This catalyst retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and selective propene production at high temperatures. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using modifiers to weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing selectivity issues and deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn to Pt enhances propylene selectivity. Strategies to tackle coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which improve propylene selectivity and stability while minimizing noble metal usage. Notably, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, influenced by operating conditions, and only a small part of the formed coke is responsible for catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies produce specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan managed by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation and catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days ensure an uninterrupted product stream. High temperatures, while ideal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking, demonstrating the advantage of using it for deriving information from a single catalysis experiment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but their cost and toxicity have led to the exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency; strategies such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration help mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate this include rational Pt surface structure design, weakening propylene adsorption, and modifying catalysts by controlling Pt NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Adding Sn enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity by controlling crystallite size. ZrO2 serves as an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering higher activity and durability. It mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, crucial for the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, sans chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Measures to slow down coking include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge posed by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote both conversion and coke formation, potentially sintering the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn to increase their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by lowering the reaction temperature.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an economically competitive route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote [7]). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote [9]). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote [10]). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, face challenges from coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, but high temperatures can reduce selectivity and stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, enhance thermal stability and act as active sites that promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. Structural ordering prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials showing promise. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by the catalyst bed, direct fuel, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. These measures are crucial for maintaining high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn, are key for propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts improve selectivity and stability, while single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, ensures the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation state, specifically the most positively charged single Pt atom.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It's an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding high-purity olefins. The industry is shifting to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and impacting catalyst lifetime and regeneration costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, acting as a promoter. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being critical. Traditional Pt and Cr catalysts are expensive or toxic, while recent research highlights iron-based catalysts as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and coke control, modifying catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports like TiOx to hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity due to its crystallite size affecting active site concentration. This alternative offers industrial durability and mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. High-temperature PDH, around 550-625°C, is crucial for efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity, coupled with oxidative regeneration techniques, ensures sustained catalyst performance in propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated by their ability to revert to an atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like Pt sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation that prevents Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key considerations. Catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this, enhancing propene selectivity (90%) and stability at high temperatures, as demonstrated under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures for conversion. However, high temperatures also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process. Coke formation on Pt catalysts, a major challenge, reduces performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability by prohibiting coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures causing coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial applications. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on balancing propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but struggle with thermal stability at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, offers a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites, with Pt3 sites being more active for further reactions, necessitating modification. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt, which significantly improves stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and selectivity for 96 hours at 600°C without deactivation, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition boosts propylene selectivity. To combat coke formation, strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a key propene production method, significantly contributing to global supply. Pt-based catalysts, central to Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to suppress propylene dehydrogenation. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can diminish its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions that favor the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality. The global expansion of PDH installations reflects the industry's shift towards more economical feedstock, particularly shale-based ethane in the US. Utilizing a PtSn catalyst, the process operates under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained through temperature adjustments. The continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with a cycle every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for supply gaps from conventional methods. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which diminish selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while curbing cracking, thus extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (e.g., 3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity compared to larger ones (e.g., 21 nm), leading to increased coking rates. Particle size profoundly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes correlating with higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC systems reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 hinges on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation, illustrating a complex interplay between catalyst performance and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being critical. Traditional Pt and Cr catalysts are expensive or hazardous, but recent research highlights promising iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; however, using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is pivotal for CC bond breaking, yet catalyst deactivation stems from coke formation via CH3CC* and C*. Mitigation strategies include rational Pt surface design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts and suitable supports improve performance and selectivity, while electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhances stability and curbs coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as a catalyst, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, offering higher activity and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it an industrially relevant alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. To further minimize coke formation, optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques are recommended strategies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. PtSn and PtCu catalysts influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability in Oleflex. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA catalysts boost selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, preventing coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] enhances propylene desorption and stability by structurally ordering Pt and Zn atoms, mitigating coke side reactions and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production demands high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via coke formation. Stable catalysts are vital for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, showcasing outstanding stability. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, necessary for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, critical for propene production, faces challenges with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using Pt with Sn to enhance propene selectivity, atomically dispersed Pt, and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve propene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles have shown 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is a significant source of global propylene. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output. Catalyst design can minimize coke formation while maintaining activity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption are effective strategies. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen decreases both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity challenges. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year catalyst lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation is favored, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, which favors cracking over dehydrogenation. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with temperature and pressure crucial for selectivity. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, leading to exploration of benign alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and regenerating catalysts to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites cleaving C-H bonds in alkanes. ZrO2's active site concentration, controllable by adjusting crystallite size, enhances propene selectivity. In contrast to Pt-based catalysts, which suffer from coke formation, ZrO2 mitigates this issue by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to address coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, obviating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production under conditions of 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that boost conversion but also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. Its economic edge stems from natural gas's abundance, ensuring low-cost and feasibility. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium's toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, employing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts with a 1:1 molar ratio are pivotal, enhancing thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability, and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production demands high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for global propylene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures without deactivation, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, often improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant hurdle, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts enhance selectivity and stability, minimizing side reactions. Single-atom catalysts, notably Pt on Cu nanoparticles, significantly boost propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can fine-tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions, with hydrogen decreasing the rate of coke formation and the deactivating effect of the coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is favored for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, with dozens of new installations globally. The process uses PtSn catalysts under specific conditions, maintaining activity for 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures boost olefin yields but also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, addressing the critical challenge in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Deactivated catalysts require costly regeneration. Research aims to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but recent research suggests iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, exacerbated on small Pt clusters, is a critical issue. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, and alloying, and selecting appropriate supports. Sn addition enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke formation. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve efficiency and precious metal utilization. Selecting supports modifies performance, and TiOx increases electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates propane's C-H bonds under specific conditions, with ZrO2 emerging as an efficient alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts due to its unsaturated Zr sites. By controlling ZrO2's crystallite size, propene selectivity is enhanced. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, where Pt nanoparticles migrate and coalesce, reducing surface area and activity. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. PtSn/CeO2 deactivated catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is a key propene production method, with optimal conditions at around 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys, are critical for selectivity and activity, achieving high propylene yields and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency hurdle, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, maintaining high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces challenges due to coke formation at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, susceptible to coking, can be improved with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts suggests potential efficiency and commercial viability. Microwave irradiation is a promising approach to reduce energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a cost-effective route for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium's toxicity. PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts, by inhibiting propylene adsorption, diminish coke formation and suppress the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation significantly degrades these catalysts' performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Controlling the Pt catalyst size and modifying support properties also help in reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical, enhancing propene selectivity by promoting initial and second C-H cleavage of propane. These electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] also inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving stability. The ordered structure of [PtZn4] prevents Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being central despite needing Sn for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant issue, leading to deactivation. To tackle this, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage, improve surface-bonded propylene desorption, and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can also adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial process since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. It yields exclusively propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production faces challenges due to cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). This size effect significantly influences coke content, with smaller particles causing a two orders of magnitude increase in coke deposition. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for maintaining activity, selectivity, and stability. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while reducing undesired side reactions, prolonging catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with optimal conditions focusing on temperature and pressure for enhanced selectivity. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. Mitigation strategies include using promoters to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, a critical process in the chemical industry, activates propane's C-H bonds, influenced by catalyst type and conditions. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. By controlling ZrO2's crystallite size, propene selectivity is enhanced. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and employing oxidative regeneration techniques, conducted at high temperatures (550-625°C), essential for producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without chlorine, addressing deactivation concerns.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Catalyst types, including PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs, impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs notably mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption for high selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates, but this can lead to side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows promise for improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures required for the endothermic reaction lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency. (Quotes 4, 7, 9, 10, 16)", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures over 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major issue, reducing performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs enhance selectivity and stability at high temperatures. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as active sites, facilitating the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, boosting propene production while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure prevents coke buildup, maintaining catalyst integrity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity and face deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, favoring activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To mitigate coking, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With global PDH installations on the rise, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is managed by temperature adjustments to maintain activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    