Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is pivotal in meeting supply demands, yet faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Smaller Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where propane is dehydrogenated under specific conditions. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though research explores non-toxic, earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is caused by coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, especially on small Pt clusters with higher surface area. Rational design of Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, boosting propene selectivity. High-temperature PDH yields propene for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this through propane/propene interaction, facilitating regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke, maximizing propene selectivity. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques remove coke, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor co-feeding, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated in the study.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), using PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, with catalyst types affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption for high selectivity and stability at high temperatures, demonstrating 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, benefit from Sn addition to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures are strategies to enhance efficiency and mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures over 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are employed, with Pt-based catalysts being pivotal in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration tackles coke formation through chlorine-air combustion. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst performance and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts boost selectivity and stability by promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The Pt1 site's geometry-isolated and electron-rich nature in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propane's first and second C-H bond cleavage, preventing propylene's over-dehydrogenation and coke side reactions. This structural ordering ensures Pt and Zn do not segregate, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for global propene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms and alloying with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa offers a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains active, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The catalyst retains its structure and size, demonstrating high thermal stability. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their activity, enhanced by Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major deactivation challenge. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 80s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Hydrogen reduces coke precursor formation, minimizing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen decreases both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Growing PDH installations globally reflect favorable market conditions. The US shift to shale-based ethane for steam cracking is driven by cheap natural gas liquids. High-energy demands and dwindling reserves prompt the petrochemical industry to seek efficient technologies. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. A PtSn-based catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, designed for continuous operation. Regenerated catalysts complete cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Common catalysts Pt and Cr are costly and toxic, leading to exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration, such as thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions, can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Its activity can be controlled by adjusting crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, dropping conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated by the redox properties of ceria and the effectiveness of water vapor in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys such as PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH at lower temperatures aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a vital petrochemical. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low propene selectivity. Adding Cu as a promoter suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This strategy improves PDH process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a critical challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial, with single Pt atom catalysts showing promise. These approaches aim to prevent coke from covering catalysts and blocking active sites, maintaining efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts with isolated Pt1 sites enhance thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst integrity through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. The PtGaPb catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieves highly selective and stable PDH. Demonstrating 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, the single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. Achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation is possible with PtGaPb, showing improved stability and selectivity under harsh conditions. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga contributing to this effect. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a significant challenge. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 can reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene adsorption and polymerization. Hydrogen decreases coke formation and catalyst deactivation by inhibiting coke precursors but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect, as studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. have shown.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies exclusively produce olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts to more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. A PtSn-based catalyst operates under specific conditions, with its life span maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, while frequent catalyst regeneration is crucial. High temperatures, necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a solution to propylene supply gaps, yet faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while curbing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation is heavily influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles promoting more coke. Analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 hinges on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may stem from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face issues of cost and toxicity, prompting research into alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, is a viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx, offering enhanced propene selectivity by controlling its crystallite size. Industrial PDH applications focus on propene production for the chemical sector. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and optimizing crystallite sizes to minimize coke buildup.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C; coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without water vapor, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses PtM alloys under specific conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) boost propene selectivity to 90% and stability over 120 hours, effectively addressing coke formation, a key efficiency challenge. Coke reduces catalyst activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene formation and low deactivation rates, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for high conversion rates, but this can lead to side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation and extends their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. Its economic viability stems from abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures required for the endothermic reaction lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Metal (Pt) and oxide (CrOx) catalysts are utilized, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly hinders catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. These measures aim to reduce coke and enhance catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability and selectivity by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles prevent coke side reactions, facilitate propylene desorption, and prohibit coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional methods' limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical issue, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts optimize noble metal usage, improve propylene desorption, and prevent further dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity and stability. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced propensity for deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. The process, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously for 2-3 years, with activity maintained by adjusting temperatures. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, which degrades catalyst performance over time, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, with challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to improve catalysts for enhanced DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but earth-abundant alternatives like iron are explored due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Under high temperatures, strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. The critical challenge is to weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, offers high efficiency due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in propane. ZrO2's activity can be tuned by adjusting its crystallite size, making it a preferred alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts in industrial applications. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes. High temperatures are crucial for PDH efficiency. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and regeneration ability make it a cost-effective choice in the CATOFIN process, maximizing propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor to PtSn catalysts maintains low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C, whereas its absence increases coke content to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated by the spent catalyst readily reverting to this state after such treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for PDH. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. These SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with low deactivation rates. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, thus addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption through Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the high-temperature requirement for PDH leads to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as evidenced by the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with platinum-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalyst performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, serve as active sites that enhance propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles prevent coke formation by promoting propylene desorption and maintaining structural ordering, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propylene production, requires high temperatures for sufficient yields but faces catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for propylene over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts, though effective, face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates catalyst deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt-based catalysts, is pivotal for propene production, with Sn addition enhancing selectivity. The primary challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, minimizing noble metal usage and improving propylene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity by boosting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene strategies predict enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions. Alkali metals help reduce coking by providing excess mobile electrons to the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH installations are expanding globally. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with continuous operation and a 5-10 day catalyst regeneration cycle. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply gaps, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research targets enhancing catalysts for higher DHP rates and minimized side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques mitigate this issue, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production utilizes ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering high activity and durability. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with optimal crystallite sizes minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. In contrast, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to remove coke deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated in studies.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include reaction conditions and catalyst type, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. These alloys mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, and allow for catalyst regeneration through successive oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, with Sn promoters to reduce coking, are used to extend their lifetime. Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to enhance PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting propane into olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. This addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, facing the challenge of coke formation that hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability at high temperatures. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, facilitating the initial C-H cleavage of propane, promoting propylene desorption, and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving catalyst stability and preventing Pt/Zn segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Industry seeks stable catalysts for PDH that can withstand high temperatures. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, demonstrating high conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop. This catalyst retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts are employed to boost surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, thus improving selectivity and stability. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers a promising solution to reduce deep dehydrogenation, making the catalyst more active and less prone to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To address this, modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing coke formation rate is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhance propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. Catalyst lifespan of 2-3 years is maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days counteract coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, reducing selectivity and causing deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or further crack into C1, C2, or surface carbon. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and hazardous, driving research into safer, earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes efficiency. Strategies to mitigate this include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. Weakening propylene adsorption strength and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized with ZrO2, which outperforms Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts due to its durability and high activity. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites cleave C-H bonds in alkanes, maximizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration to remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, diminishing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively mitigate coke formation, boosting propene selectivity and stability. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore activity, as demonstrated by high selectivity and extended stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, where high temperatures, crucial for conversion, also promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts enhances their longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH at lower temperatures shows promise for future commercial use and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins at high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production, utilizing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) with a 1:1 molar ratio of Pt:M is a significant advancement. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propene, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. Additionally, [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propene, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that cause coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are vital for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation due to coke necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Pb modification significantly enhances stability and selectivity, achieving continuous, highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and economic operation of large dehydrogenation units. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propylene selectivity, face the challenge of coke formation leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, with the latter achieving 90% propylene selectivity by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, further boosts activity and reduces deep dehydrogenation, addressing the coke formation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, prominently used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15. Alkali metals facilitate electron transfer to Pt, decreasing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation but not removing existing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from favorable market conditions and its exclusive olefin yield, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Global PDH installations are expanding, driven by cheaper shale-based ethane and the industry's pursuit of efficient technologies. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over a 2-3 year lifespan through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, facing challenges like cracking and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke. This impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration, which complicates the process and increases costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Particle size affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure critical for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing catalysts with higher coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is caused by coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity (60-80%) and catalyst stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. ZrO2 shows high activity and selectivity, making it a preferred choice over Pt-based catalysts due to lower coke formation rates and higher durability. Oxidative regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity, further enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, notably PtSn and PtCu, impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys enhance propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, addressing the efficiency-reducing issue of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, susceptible to coking, can be improved with promoters to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption, tackling the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4, 5, 6). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7, 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10, 11). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst performance (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability, are utilized in UOP's Oleflex process, with regeneration involving coke combustion using chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major issue, degrades catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles, are developed to enhance the process. These ensembles promote propane's C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability. They prevent coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, significantly boosting catalyst performance and efficiency in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has a stable (111) surface with isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation is achieved. PtGaPb retains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's larger atomic radius, which inhibits diffusion into PtGa. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Heat for endothermic reactions is sourced from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, using Pt-based catalysts with Sn to enhance selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting less deep dehydrogenation and higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rate and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is expanding with numerous new installations. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical propene production method, addressing propylene supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while curbing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity than larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size profoundly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Catalyst development aims to balance CH and CC bond activation for optimal C3H6 selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal, with Pt and Cr being common but costly or hazardous. Recent studies highlight iron-based catalysts as a promising, less expensive, and non-toxic alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for stability, promoting CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants extends catalyst use time. Partially reduced TiOx enhances Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. High temperatures exacerbate propylene adsorption, leading to side reactions that form coke and deactivate the catalyst, with selectivity around 60-80%. The critical challenge is to weaken propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using propane for propene production is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites, enhancing propene output. ZrO2 offers a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, making it preferred in industrial applications. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing for cost-effective regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated by the redox properties of ceria and the effectiveness of water vapor in mitigating coke formation on PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state, with the loss of activity not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency, by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. These SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates. However, high temperatures can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoter elements like Sn, which extends catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research also explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures needed for the endothermic reaction promote thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can inhibit propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing the formation of lighter hydrocarbons, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes like Oleflex, face a critical challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. These approaches aim to curb coke formation, which blocks access to active sites on metal catalysts, and improve catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalyst ensembles enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates propene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are critical for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields high-purity olefins. Global PDH expansion is underway, with a shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to mitigate coke formation, a challenge that necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to reduce coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and deactivate catalysts. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure affecting efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing catalysts with higher coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt catalysts follow the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a significant issue. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of Pt surface structure, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, promotion of CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and use of dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propene selectivity, while coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2's efficiency in cleaving these bonds. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size boosts propene selectivity, offering an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes PDH efficiency; ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and ensuring higher activity and durability, which is crucial for cost-effective propene production processes like CATOFIN.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation through sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, and the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) offer enhanced propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, effectively mitigating coke formation, a significant challenge that impairs catalyst efficiency. Optimal reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are crucial. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene selectivity and stability, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures (550-700°C), which leads to coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts' performance. Enhancing Pt catalysts with Sn extends their lifetime, addressing deactivation by coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. High reaction temperatures, necessary for propene yield, lead to coke formation, a major challenge. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke. Strategies like Cu addition mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, addressing the critical issue of coke on Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly affects performance and stability, posing a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the complex network of reactions and intermediates leading to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability by promoting initial propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. These electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] prevent coke formation, maintaining catalyst stability through structural ordering and facilitating propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industrial applications. PtGa intermetallic compounds with isolated Pt1 sites offer thermal stability and high selectivity, minimizing coke formation. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous propylene production at high temperatures. This modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt, leveraging PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius to inhibit diffusion. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, crucial for catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn for improved propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propene desorption, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is pivotal for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene yield, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports with weak acidity, reduces coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the search for more economical feedstocks. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while ideal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, crucial for cracking reactions. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of the Pt surface structure, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, promotion of CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and use of dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying the geometrical and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts increases propylene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms enhance catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated sites that cleave C-H bonds, optimizing active sites for enhanced propene selectivity. ZrO2 serves as an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. High temperatures (550-625°C) promote dehydrogenation, while ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, improving catalyst durability. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration to remove coke, restoring activity and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, mitigating coke formation and enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Strategies to mitigate sintering include adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is pivotal for propene production, utilizing PtM alloys as catalysts. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Notably, Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst achieves 90% propene selectivity and maintains stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation, a critical challenge. Pt-based catalysts can suffer from deactivation due to coking, but promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing this issue. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, can enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in UOP's Oleflex process for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major challenge, degrading performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The Pt1 site in [PtZn4] prevents coke side reactions and promotes desorption of surface-bound propylene, maintaining catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are vital for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures, crucial for economic conversion, accelerate side reactions, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles or doped graphene mitigate coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These strategies minimize noble metal usage and optimize catalytic properties, such as improved surface-bonded propylene desorption, ensuring efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer quality. The industry's shift to cheaper shale-based ethane from oil-based naphtha is driven by high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, requiring catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, essential for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, with challenges in hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Coke acts as a promoter to improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio, with larger Pt particles being more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where temperature and pressure are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency issue, mitigated by strategies such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke and catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface design and strategies like Sn addition, CeO2 promotion, and dopants improve selectivity, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration, enhancing catalyst stability. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency, while TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as a superior catalyst due to its high activity, selectivity, and durability. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, boosting propene output. ZrO2's in-situ regeneration capability addresses the efficiency-reducing issue of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical challenge in PDH. Industrial applications of PDH contribute to the production of chemicals, plastics, and detergents, benefiting from ZrO2's enhanced performance and coke mitigation strategies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) notably enhance propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup reduces selectivity and activity, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates, but this can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation and extends their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production (Quote 2). Catalysts are categorized into metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) types (Quote 3), with Pt-based catalysts, notably in UOP's Oleflex process, undergoing regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air (Quote 4, 5). Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability in PDH (Quote 6), but coke formation significantly affects performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 11), alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn (Quote 12, 13).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) boosts selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, which promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting propylene's further dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. The Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates propylene desorption, preventing coke formation. Structural ordering in IMAs prevents Pt and Zn segregation, ensuring stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining high conversion and selectivity for propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt/Sn catalysts offering high activity and selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, key in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins. With dozens of new installations, the process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    