Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing coke formation and poor catalyst stability. To boost propylene selectivity, Pt catalysts are modified by controlling Pt NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and enhances stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production involves C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with regeneration capabilities, make it a cost-effective choice for the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Catalysts, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), are critical for selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an economically competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is favored due to the abundance of natural gas as a propane source. However, the endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, are preferred over Cr-based ones due to lower coke formation rates. Yet, coke formation and low propylene selectivity limit Pt catalysts' efficiency. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are central to the process. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite their high selectivity and durability, Pt catalysts face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloys (IMAs) are developed to address this, featuring isolated Pt1 sites for improved thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus enhancing selectivity and stability by preventing coke formation. This structure also facilitates propylene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed and isolated, are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa compound has a stable surface displaying isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius, which prevents diffusion into PtGa. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using single-atom catalysts, Pt/Cu nanoparticles for improved propylene desorption, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene yield, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coking. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen's presence can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing propylene supply gaps. However, it faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability. CeO2 promoters enhance oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size adjusts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include chemical industry propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. High temperatures (550-625°C) promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2's high activity and durability, along with oxidative regeneration techniques, combat coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (around 520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu SAAs showing high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex employs coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation significantly impairs Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts enhance efficiency and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption, thus addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa compound, with its stable (111) surface and isolated Pt sites, is promising. However, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable these sites while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving high conversion and selectivity without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga preventing Pb diffusion into the bulk.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat supplied by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is advantageous as it selectively yields high-purity olefins. The global increase in PDH installations reflects growing demand. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock in the US highlights industry trends. Seeking more efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector aims to reduce energy demands and improve selectivity. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges such as long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives. Iron-based materials show promise. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation stems from CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure boosts selectivity and controls coke. Propylene adsorption leads to byproduct formation, necessitating its strength reduction. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering high propene selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing catalytic performance. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a cost-effective method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu as a promoter can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts, like those in UOP's Oleflex process, favored for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly hinders catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, which blocks active sites and degrades catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs significantly enhances propene selectivity and stability in propene production. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these SACs promote the initial dehydrogenation of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. This mechanism ensures the desorption of surface-bound propylene and prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for propylene production. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, above 600°C, are critical for conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn for better propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K, or using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, to reduce coking rates. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both the rate of formation and the deactivating effect of coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is market-favored due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, unlike mixed products from other methods. The industry is expanding with numerous PDH installations globally. Shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock in the U.S. is driven by economic and technological factors. PDH uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures steady product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yield also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying Pt-based catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst use.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This catalyst offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species, with higher activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further minimize coke formation include optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas without it, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is difficult, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu SAAs showing high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and excellent stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. However, high temperatures promote side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, show increased lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts employed in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for selectivity and durability, but coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with a molar ratio of Pt/M = 1, are pivotal, dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This enhances selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and improving desorption of surface-bound propylene, thus mitigating coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, offers a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third one, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production is achieved at high temperatures without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains its structure and size, demonstrating high thermal stability. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins like propylene and isobutylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their activity. However, selectivity to propylene is improved by adding Sn as a promoter. A major challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability while minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles enhance CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing Pt surface structures rationally enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation and cracking, which form coke. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies, improving selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's activity can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts typically requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst shows excellent stability and anti-coke capability, with high propene selectivity (90%) and low deactivation rate, maintaining activity through successive oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, extending their lifetime. Research is exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the challenge of coke formation and enhancing PDH process effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability are being explored. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes like Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly affecting performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity. This structure also prevents coke formation, ensuring catalyst stability and prohibiting coke side reactions, which is critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering under high-temperature conditions necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping the Pt1 site active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn to enhance propylene selectivity. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage, enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and prohibit further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, for instance, significantly boost propylene selectivity to 90% while mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K to reduce coking by providing mobile electrons. Supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, also help by weakening propylene adsorption. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity olefins. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The reaction, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. The system cycles every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges such as cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of the deactivated catalyst increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). The size of Pt particles significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 is determined by the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, and CeO2 promotion for reduced coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing durability in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are key. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu SAAs enhancing propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, and achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, maintaining high propylene formation and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High propane conversion requires temperatures of 550-700°C, but this also promotes coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. To mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, promoter elements like Sn are used, increasing catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on novel catalysts, such as Co-based ones, and the use of microwave irradiation to reduce energy consumption and improve PDH at lower temperatures, are promising areas of development.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical. These structures enhance propene selectivity and stability by promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high PDH temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt sites. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This catalyst stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, retains small particle sizes, and shows resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling support acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both the rate of formation and the deactivating effect of coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects the industry's shift to more economical feedstock like shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a cycle of catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones are selective for CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation, with propylene selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, reducing activity but increasing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx enhance catalyst performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, controlled by adjusting crystallite size, facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, enhancing propene selectivity and minimizing overall costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor keeps coke content on PtSn catalysts below 1wt% after 6 hours at 680°C, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, PtGe, and PtCu determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability at 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote coke formation, which can deactivate Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. The process requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts prominent in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration combats coke via chlorine-air combustion. Pt catalysts, despite high selectivity and durability, face deactivation from coke, a byproduct of deep reactions at high temperatures that blocks active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size, with computational DFT simulations aiding in understanding catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. This structure also facilitates propylene desorption and prevents coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene production. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering is inevitable under high-temperature conditions, necessitating continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation of propene and its hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit undesired side reactions. Alloying active main metal (Pt) with an inactive metal (Sn) enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective for using isolated Pt, but their application to high-temperature reactions like PDH is challenging due to insufficient thermal stability. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Ga3 moiety supports the isolated Pt1 atom. For PtGa in PDH, the Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions. Modification to disable Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites available is needed for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is selectively blocked by Pb deposition, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity (>30% conv., >99.6% sel.) for 50 h under harsh conditions. The Pb modification significantly improves stability and selectivity. The PtGaPb catalyst achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production in PDH at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstandingly high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, which Sn promoters improve. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 to lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing coke formation rate is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its deactivating effect can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, petrochemicals face challenges like high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. PtSn catalysts operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days, crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate coke formation, maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High temperatures strengthen Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. To improve selectivity, Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures are modified, including Pt NP size control, alloying with TMs or main-group metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution in regeneration, enhancing stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, reduce carbon deposition, and facilitate carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Catalysts show superior PDH performance, consistent with Xiao et al.'s findings. Dopants enhance selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst life. Suitable supports modify metal catalysts' performance for PDH. Electron transfer from partially reduced TiOx to Pt atoms increases electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. High temperatures (550-625°C) promote dehydrogenation, while ZrO2's high selectivity towards propene production makes it a preferred catalyst. Coke formation can be further addressed through oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with coke amount or nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (around 520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. To mitigate coke formation, adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts increases their lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and the use of microwave irradiation to reduce energy consumption and improve PDH at lower temperatures are promising strategies for enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts used in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are crucial, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These geometry-isolated, electron-rich Pt1 sites promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly enhancing selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also prevent coke formation, improving stability by prohibiting coke side reactions and avoiding Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site in PtGa is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are critical for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promotion for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption and reduce coking. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, decreasing coking rates. Hydrogen's role is dual: it suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies offer an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, prompted by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. The PDH process, using a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts, active for 2-3 years, maintain dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles, completed every 5-10 days, are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH-to-CC activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to research on earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts are being explored to mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have a higher coking rate due to larger surface area, accelerating deactivation. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to improve catalysts include modifying Pt structures, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers high efficiency and durability. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage in propane, with activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. This makes it a superior alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. Optimal crystallite size design further minimizes coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity. PDH operates at high temperatures (550-625°C) for dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice critical for efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2's high activity and lower coke formation rates make it a preferred catalyst, with oxidative regeneration techniques enhancing its performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn, which increases their lifetime by reducing coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process, favored for its economic viability due to abundant natural gas resources, faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, are preferred but suffer from significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH severely impacts catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial, with single Pt atom catalysts showing promise. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity. This structure also prevents coke formation by promoting propylene desorption and maintaining the integrity of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to severe catalyst deactivation from coke formation at high temperatures. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with continuous regeneration maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, face challenges in selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn as a promoter enhances propylene selectivity. To combat coke formation, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its dependence on operating conditions highlight the need for controlled reaction environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects its increasing importance. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies, the petrochemical industry is adapting to high-energy demands and low selectivity of traditional processes. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. A PtSn-based catalyst operates under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, in a continuous system for uninterrupted product flow. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond active sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr are traditional catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigating this issue. Research focuses on developing coking-resistant catalysts to enhance process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Propylene's strong adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports improves selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx enhances electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is complexly related to coke amount and nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's conversion effect. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are key. Catalysts like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs show high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are crucial for propane conversion but also promote coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, especially with promoter elements like Sn, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which causes deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are crucial, with Pt-based catalysts employed in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can severely impact performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically PtZn IMAs, significantly enhance propene selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This mechanism improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The surface [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further improving stability by prohibiting coke formation and preventing the segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene that requires high temperatures for sufficient yields, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, such as Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site in PtGa is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable these sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, allowing long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are vital but prone to rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output. Catalyst design can reduce coke formation while maintaining activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 to lower coking rates. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. Employing a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the system operates continuously. Regenerated catalysts complete cycles every 5-10 days, but high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to interest in earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration helping mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to enhance Pt-based catalysts include size and shape control, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx enhances electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's activity can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. High temperatures around 550-625 degrees Celsius promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2 shows high selectivity towards propene. Alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion but also promote coke formation, which can sinter Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation. This approach improves the efficiency and regeneration of Pt catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propylene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. These approaches aim to reduce coke, which covers catalysts and blocks active sites, thereby improving efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts significantly enhance efficiency and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves selectivity and stability by facilitating propylene desorption and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, thus mitigating coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the catalyst retaining its structure and demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn as a promoter to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve propene selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation. Doped graphene strategies further optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide excess electrons to Pt, while supports like SBA-15 weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation's rate is highly dependent on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    