Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face issues of cost and toxicity, prompting research into alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking, such as using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, are being explored to enhance catalyst performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, enhancing propene selectivity. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance, and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as a durable catalyst offering high selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size enhances catalytic performance and minimizes coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency on Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, enabling in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications are vital for propene production in the chemical industry, used in plastics and detergents. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques, ensuring sustained catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure and 520°C, is pivotal for propene production. Pt/Cu SAAs boost propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours, effectively tackling coke formation, a key efficiency hurdle. Coke reduces selectivity and activity, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into olefins. However, the process is endothermic and requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and propene selectivity. [Quote 4] underscores PDH's economic viability, while [Quote 7] notes the high temperature requirement. [Quote 9] stresses the need for high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability. [Quote 10] highlights Pt-based catalysts' lower coke formation rate compared to Cr-based catalysts. [Quote 11] discusses Pt catalyst limitations, and [Quote 16] suggests adding Cu to mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are essential, with Pt-based catalysts prominently featured in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration tackles coke formation via chlorine-air combustion. Despite high selectivity and durability, Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke, which originates from intermediates at high temperatures, obstructing active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size, as computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance the process by serving as active sites that promote initial propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This structure prevents coke formation, significantly improving selectivity and stability, and enhances propylene desorption by prohibiting coke side reactions and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, while alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to high-temperature stability issues. Modifying PtGa with Pb, selectively blocking Pt3 while keeping Pt1 intact, achieves high selectivity and stability, demonstrating 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heated by the catalyst bed, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without shutdowns, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, necessitate Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include employing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles to boost propylene selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. The rate of coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, highlighting the need for careful control.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, driven by high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The system operates continuously at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C for an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days, but high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal, with Pt and Cr being common but costly or hazardous. Recent studies suggest iron-based catalysts as a promising alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency, but using phosphate can mitigate coking and maintain activity. Catalyst regeneration techniques can restore activity by removing coke, ensuring sustained process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke deposition, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it a superior alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts in terms of activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but using ZrO2 mitigates this issue through in situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction. Designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes further minimizes coke formation, crucial for industrial PDH applications in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration intervals are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include moderate temperatures and pressures, with propane-to-nitrogen ratios optimized for efficiency. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts exhibit high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours, mitigating coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading catalysts. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance longevity by reducing coking, while research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows promise for lower-temperature PDH, improving energy efficiency and commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, which deactivates them (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, with Pt catalysts favored for selectivity and durability in commercial applications like Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties, aiming to reduce coke formation that blocks active sites and impedes catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, with surface [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance stability and selectivity by isolating active sites and inhibiting coke formation, promoting efficient propane dehydrogenation while preventing further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising options. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to high-temperature stability issues. The PtGa intermetallic compound, modified with Pb to block threefold Pt sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. This modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production in PDH without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt catalysts for propene production, faces a challenge with coke formation leading to deactivation. Enhancements include atomically dispersed Pt, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which boost propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene, particularly with positively charged single Pt atoms, optimizes electronic structure, enhancing activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a pivotal method for propene production, significantly impacting global supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen is shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its control is essential for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts are regenerated every 5-10 days to counteract activity loss over 2-3 years. The high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. The petrochemical industry's shift to more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves, highlights PDH's growing importance, with numerous new installations planned globally.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance the DHP reaction rate while minimizing side reactions to prolong catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but costly and hazardous, leading to research on safer, earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces efficiency; however, using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is accelerated on small Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is crucial. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and deactivation. To improve selectivity, Pt-based catalysts' structures are modified, including size control, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, enhancing selectivity. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 catalysts, offers higher activity and durability with lower coke formation rates compared to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, controlled by adjusting crystallite size, optimize the process. In industrial applications, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can be mitigated by ZrO2, allowing in situ regeneration through carbon deposit removal, enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions: atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, such as PtSn and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process favoring high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16). PDH's promise as a method for propene production is highlighted (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, utilizing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH like Oleflex, face the challenge of coke formation, which degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size, as computational simulations reveal insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are crucial, enhancing propene selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. These ensembles prevent coke side reactions, ensuring stable active sites and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. They improve stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke. Stable catalysts without deactivation are vital. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising. Severe deactivation necessitates regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with stable surfaces displaying isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites, is a solution. The Pt3 site requires modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows high conversion and selectivity without deactivation at high temperatures. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt, minimizing coke and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, overcoming traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, particularly Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhance propylene selectivity by 90% and stability, inhibiting further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene strategies also optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation is crucial, as it decreases coke formation and deactivation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and hydrogen's dual effect on its rate and deactivating impact are key insights.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity propene. With global PDH expansion, the industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, regenerating the catalyst every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying catalyst supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates C-H bonds in propane, influenced by catalysts and conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, outperforms Pt-based catalysts in activity and durability. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH is vital for chemical industry propene supply. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, whereas ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing efficiency in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate <1wt% coke content post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, enhancing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated via oxidation without chlorine, preserving the atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts typically requires redispersion of Pt particles, achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion, while introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helping.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types, like PtSn and PtCu, are pivotal for selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability under high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting side reactions and coke formation that can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. The process is economically competitive due to the abundance of propane from natural gas. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst, as demonstrated by PtCu/Al2O3. This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are essential, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex commercial process. However, coke formation significantly hinders Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism, highlighting the complex network of reactions and the propensity for intermediates to form coke at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn intermetallic alloy catalysts enhance efficiency by improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, where the isolated Pt1 site promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, preventing coke formation. This structure facilitates propylene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn atom segregation, maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, are effective. PtGa's (111) surface displays isolated Pt and Ga sites, with Pt3 sites being active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while retaining single-atom Pt, showing 30% conversion and 99.6% selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb maintains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, improving stability. Long-term, continuous, and selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units for light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, though active, lack selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases the deactivating effect of coke, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its dependence on operating conditions are crucial considerations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity propene. With global PDH installations on the rise, the industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring CH bond activation for dehydrogenation over cracking reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being key. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity prompt the search for alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to maintain process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants improve dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electronic properties, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a durable catalyst with adjustable active sites for optimal performance. ZrO2 efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an alternative to Pt-based catalysts prone to coke formation, which reduces efficiency. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, regenerating through propane/propene interaction, enhancing propene selectivity. High temperatures around 550-625°C are typical for PDH, with ZrO2 showing high activity and selectivity. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine addition.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen's oxidation to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts used commercially. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types determine selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability at high temperatures, as demonstrated by high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency reduction caused by coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges at high temperatures (550-700°C) due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and controlling catalyst size. These measures are crucial for improving catalyst regeneration and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites, while [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, improving selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This structure prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, requiring high temperatures, faces catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Pb modification significantly enhances stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economically viable conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for meeting the increasing demand for propene, with Pt catalysts being active but requiring Sn promoters for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using single-atom catalysts, Pt/Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which improve selectivity, stability, and surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation and enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, with hydrogen decreasing both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields high-purity olefins, aligning with market demands. The industry is expanding with new PDH installations, leveraging cheaper shale-based ethane. High-energy demands and oil scarcity drive the search for more efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with an endothermic reaction requiring continuous operation. Catalysts maintain activity for 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for supply gaps from conventional methods. Key challenges are hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). This size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for maintaining activity, selectivity, and stability, reducing process complexity and costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity have spurred research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. To mitigate coke formation, promoters like phosphate stabilize the catalyst surface, preventing coking, and catalyst regeneration techniques restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure improves selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength prevents deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt structure, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, using ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offers high activity and durability. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with optimal performance achieved by controlling crystallite size. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for the chemical industry, influenced by reaction conditions like temperature and pressure. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, necessitating high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, marking significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge posed by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at 550-700°C, promoting side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Sn addition enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH shows promise for efficiency and energy savings.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene from propane, a route economically bolstered by abundant natural gas. However, the process's endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency. This addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a key consideration in PDH for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are key, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and modifying catalyst composition, such as alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and optimizing support properties. These measures aim to reduce coke formation and improve catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability and selectivity by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt-based ones, are essential for industrial PDH. PtGa, a thermally stable intermetallic compound, offers promise by providing single-atom-like Pt sites that effectively catalyze the reaction while minimizing side reactions to coke. The Pt3 site, however, is more active for undesired reactions. By modifying PtGa with Pb, which selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 sites intact, highly selective and stable PDH is achieved. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propene production, offering a solution to the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those enhanced with Sn, are essential for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts poses a significant challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include utilizing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, which enhance selectivity and stability, and single-atom catalysts that optimize noble metal usage and prevent further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also be used to adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is pivotal for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism needing further elucidation. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, though it can't remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect, as shown in studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene. The process, optimized for polymer-quality purity, uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, while catalyst regeneration occurs every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. The industry's shift to shale-based ethane highlights the move towards more economical feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets developing catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, proceeds via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, a major issue, results from CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying the Pt catalyst's structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates C-H bonds in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Its activity, controllable by crystallite size, enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits make it cost-effective in industrial PDH applications, particularly in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C; without it, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, boosting propene selectivity and stability, as evidenced by high selectivity (90%) and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, needing high temperatures that promote coke formation, degrading Pt catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt enhances longevity by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is a key industrial route for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex favored for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts are pivotal, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage in propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich and geometry-isolated Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propylene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propene production. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. This demonstrates long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, maintain stable activity for years. Industrial PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts reduces efficiency, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt catalysts enhanced with Sn for selectivity, is vital for propene production. The primary challenge is coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K, and using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, can lower coking rates. Coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation. However, hydrogen cannot remove existing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days combat coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, addressing supply gaps from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke acting as a promoter to improve selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in Pt site behavior over time might explain the decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are pivotal for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their limitations spur interest in more benign, earth-abundant alternatives. A significant hurdle is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. To combat this, promoters like phosphate are employed to prevent coking, and regeneration techniques are used to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propene, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical issue. Smaller Pt clusters accelerate deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts, adding Sn for better regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates C-H bonds in propane, influenced by catalysts and conditions. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering higher activity and durability than Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. In industrial applications, coke on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration to remove coke and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures due to its endothermic nature, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to the challenge of sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Optimal conditions include a temperature around 520°C and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, with high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH process. Coke formation on Pt catalysts, however, significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and selectivity by promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This mechanism prevents coke side reactions and promotes propylene desorption, mitigating coke formation and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are essential for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on balancing propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in intermetallic compounds like PtGa are thermally stable. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for side reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows high conversion with excellent propene selectivity at 600°C. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and inhibits further reactions, minimizing coke formation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for efficiency, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, necessitate Sn promoters for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a significant propene production method. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15. Alkali metals facilitate electron transfer to Pt, decreasing coking, while weakly acidic supports weaken propylene adsorption, suppressing dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins of polymer-quality purity, optimized for industrial demands. The global increase in PDH installations reflects a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. Reaction conditions involve a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating strategies for improved catalyst regeneration to preserve efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based alternatives are explored due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, enhancing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Strong propylene adsorption leads to coke formation, deactivating the catalyst. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding promoters like Sn and CeO2 to enhance stability and oxygen mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, optimizing active site concentration and enhancing propene selectivity by adjusting crystallite size. ZrO2 is a durable, industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx, with higher activity and the ability to regenerate in situ by removing carbon deposits, making it cost-effective for propene production in processes like CATOFIN. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, critical for sustaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloy catalysts is crucial for propene production. Optimal conditions include temperatures around 520°C and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu SAAs excel by enhancing propene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under high temperatures for over 120 hours, while mitigating coke formation. Coke on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene formation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that can deactivate Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts extends their lifetime by mitigating coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation offers promising strategies to reduce energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, enhancing efficiency and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation and low selectivity due to coke formation and CC bond cleavage. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for propene production. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, valued for their selectivity and durability, face significant performance issues due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. These measures aim to reduce coke formation, which covers the catalysts and blocks active sites, thereby improving catalyst efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propene desorption and prevent coke formation, ensuring catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts for PDH, especially at high temperatures, are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability. This combination achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, essential for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include single-atom catalysts, minimizing noble metal usage and enhancing propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a significant commercial technique since the 1980s, boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, which decreases coke formation and its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price difference between propane and propylene. It exclusively yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality. Global PDH capacity is expanding, driven by cheap natural gas liquids, shifting steam cracking from naphtha to ethane. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year catalyst life span maintained by temperature adjustments. The process is continuous, with a 5-10 day catalyst regeneration cycle. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice impacting efficiency. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face cost and toxicity issues, prompting exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and lowering selectivity. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, CeO2 enhances oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation in propane, is influenced by catalysts and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, outperforms Pt-based catalysts in activity and durability. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, whereas ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a key industrial process for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of around 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloy (SAA) catalysts notably boost propene selectivity to 90% and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures, effectively managing coke formation. Coke on Pt-based catalysts diminishes selectivity and activity, affecting efficiency. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can restore catalyst activity, mitigating the impact of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins, economically viable due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the use of promoters like Cu, as seen in PtCu/Al2O3, which inhibits propylene adsorption, diminishing coke formation and suppressing the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt and CrOx catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts prominent in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration via chlorine-air combustion combats coke formation. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size, as computational DFT simulations elucidate deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, notably PtZn with a 1:1 molar ratio, are effective at high temperatures. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, promoting selective C-H cleavage in propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures causing catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site requires modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective PDH. Pb-modified PtGa shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% propane conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, prompting the addition of Sn to boost propene output. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant obstacle, causing deactivation. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, improving propene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity by preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen presence to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation but not existing coke, as shown by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. The rate of coke formation is sensitive to operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies, optimized for polymer-quality olefins, are expanding globally. The industry shifts to shale-based ethane for more economical feedstock. A PtSn-based catalyst, used for 2-3 years, maintains activity through temperature adjustments. The endothermic reaction requires continuous operation, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, a critical challenge impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps by converting propane to propene, but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates and reduce cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their costs and toxicity prompt interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include employing phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions for catalyst regeneration can restore activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, reduces efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structures, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, is an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, facilitates homolytic cleavage of C-H bonds at high temperatures. Its activity and durability are enhanced by controlling crystallite size, crucial for propene selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Unlike Pt-based catalysts where coke reduces PDH efficiency, ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, making it a cost-effective choice for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, sans chlorine, for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is pivotal for propene production, employing PtM catalysts under atmospheric pressure and high temperatures. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) notably boost propene desorption, preventing over-dehydrogenation, and offer high selectivity and stability. These SAAs mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency, by maintaining high propene formation and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene via an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research focuses on improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting propane into olefins. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation that deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature and requirement for temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. These approaches aim to improve catalyst regeneration and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance selectivity and stability at high temperatures by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates propane's C-H cleavage, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving propene desorption and stability by preventing coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. To address this, Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising, with a focus on developing stable catalysts. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This is due to the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites, which minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstandingly high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented by Sn to boost propene selectivity, face a major challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, which optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhancing propene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicts enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect, as studies by Praserthdam et al. and Rebo et al. have shown.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The reaction operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to maintain efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    