Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing propylene supply shortfalls. However, it faces challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to the exploration of earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts are being pursued. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene's strong adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, lowering selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently activates the C-H bond in propane. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhanced by controlled crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's higher activity and durability mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge in Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. PDH, conducted at high temperatures, is vital for the chemical industry, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity. Under typical reaction conditions, these catalysts show high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are crucial for propane conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in the Oleflex commercial process. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, offering enhanced selectivity and stability at high temperatures. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure ensures the desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by preventing coke side reactions and maintaining the integrity of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. PtGa, with its stable (111) surface, displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. However, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites intact achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h. The single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation, inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn as a promoter to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve desorption of surface-bonded propene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Studies show that hydrogen cannot remove formed coke but can decrease its formation rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by the price gap between propane and propylene, and optimized for polymer-quality olefins. Market trends show a surge in PDH installations, influenced by the shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with a continuous operation design. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation, a major challenge, necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking data. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity lead to research on earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate coke formation and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with less negative propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, improving conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, efficiently produces propene under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Catalyst types, including PtSn, PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, PtGe, and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are crucial for conversion but can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting efficiency. Adding promoter elements like Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts shows promise for future commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process. The inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3 reduces coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, while a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses methane formation, crucial for catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts employed in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are crucial, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites. These geometry-isolated, electron-rich Pt1 sites promote the initial and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity and stability. They inhibit further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The [PtZn4] ensembles also promote desorption of surface-bound propylene, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propylene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites, retaining single-atom Pt intact. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are necessary for economically viable conversions, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH is used industrially to produce light olefins like propylene and isobutylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for minimized noble metal usage and enhanced catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and PDH installations are rapidly increasing globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the U.S. is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies due to high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The process is continuous, with a cycle every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single experiment using TEOM/GC systems. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking to C1, C2, or surface carbon. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size adjusts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, reducing overall costs through carbon deposit removal in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Converting hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering challenges. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Key considerations include reaction conditions: atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but also promote coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts featured in UOP's Oleflex process for commercial PDH. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex employs coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can impair performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, adjusting support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into PDH catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are developed to enhance efficiency and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, particularly Pt-based ones, is crucial for industry. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site in PtGa is more active for further CH(C) scissions, necessitating modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial for economic conversions, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, favored for meeting growing demand. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is advantageous for producing pure olefins, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, influenced by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The PDH process, using PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts, with a lifespan of 2-3 years, maintain activity through temperature adjustments. However, coke formation at high temperatures necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke content. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles promoting more coke. Using a TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, limiting propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition, and employing core-shell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, is efficient due to its homolytic cleavage of C-H bonds in propane. ZrO2, with controlled crystallite size, offers high activity and durability, outperforming Pt-based catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for chemicals. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ and minimizing coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 and optimal crystallite sizes to enhance catalyst performance and reduce costs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, dropping conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering resistance can be improved by using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloys as catalysts. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, while Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to reduce energy consumption and improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to natural gas's abundance. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are employed. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and using transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Controlling Pt catalyst size and support properties also helps curb coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, significantly improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering requires catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The catalyst maintains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method due to growing demand. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by adding Sn. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major issue. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability, and single-atom catalysts that minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper ethane feedstock. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, degrading catalyst performance over time. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, crucial for catalyst regeneration and maintaining efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. This significantly impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration that increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Particle size affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, with selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution and enhance stability. Promoters like CeO2 boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a process for propene production, involving propane's C-H bond activation. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite size in ZrO2 enhances propene selectivity and minimizes coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH that leads to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ, and designing catalysts with controlled crystallite sizes. Industrial PDH applications focus on chemical industry propene production, with ZrO2 offering cost-effective and durable alternatives to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, enhancing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. At 520°C and atmospheric pressure, these catalysts show 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding promoter elements like Sn enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates the catalyst. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, utilizing metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in the Oleflex commercial PDH process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address high reaction temperatures and catalyst stability issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles enhance desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and maintaining Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propylene demand. Severe deactivation under high temperatures necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds is a solution. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt while keeping single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows high conversion and selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are critical for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates catalyst deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, often requiring Sn promoters. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, improving selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, for instance, display 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper ethane. Seeking more efficient conversion technologies, the petrochemical industry addresses high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The endothermic PDH reaction uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges such as hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of the deactivated catalyst increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they are expensive and hazardous, leading to research on earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal utilization. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, such as controlling Pt NP size and alloying, enhances propene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in industrial applications like the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene output.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloys as catalysts. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation, a major challenge impacting catalyst efficiency. At 520°C and atmospheric pressure, the Pt/Cu SAA demonstrates 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, particularly with Sn promoters, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based ones, and the use of microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption at lower temperatures, are promising strategies to enhance PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process requires high temperatures for high propene yields, but this leads to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address these issues by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, significantly improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further preventing coke formation and maintaining Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb to block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns. Industrial PDH produces light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation but not remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, driven by the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects its growing importance. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by economic and environmental factors. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under specific conditions, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalyst regeneration is crucial due to coke formation, which degrades performance over time. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst efficiency are essential for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and thermal treatment under oxidizing atmosphere to mitigate coking and regenerate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Catalyst modifications, such as size and shape control, alloying, and support selection, enhance propene selectivity. TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helping.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. High temperatures, however, promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 5). It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources (Quote 6). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability (Quote 10), face challenges like significant deactivation from coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 11). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly affects catalyst performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are developed to enhance efficiency and stability at high temperatures. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles ensures thermal stability and prohibits coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Severe deactivation under high temperatures necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Isolating Pt atoms enhances selectivity and stability. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn dilutes PtPt ensembles. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, such as Pt on oxide supports, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated Pt and Ga sites. Pt1 sites are single-atom Pt, while Pt3 sites are more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heated by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts remains a significant issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which improve propene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance surface-bonded propylene desorption, prohibiting further dehydrogenation, and achieve 90% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen's effect on it is significant.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, unlike mixed-product alternatives. The global increase in PDH installations reflects its growing importance. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's adaptation to more economical feedstock. Seeking more efficient conversion technologies, the petrochemical industry addresses high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. PtSn-based catalysts operate under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, in a continuous system. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 is determined by the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to stabilize the catalyst surface and prevent coking, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst types. ZrO2, due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls the concentration of active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but using ZrO2 mitigates this issue, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation can transform the process to exothermic and break equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are critical. Catalyst types, such as Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), significantly impact selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. High temperatures promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a critical challenge, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) emerges as a solution, with its [PtZn4] ensembles serving as key active sites. These geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity and stability by inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further improving stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showcasing improved stability and selectivity. Achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation is possible with PtGaPb. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are demonstrated by retained particle sizes and structure. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, contributing to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures above 600°C, while boosting conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, maintain stable activity for years, enabling large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity and coke formation issues. Adding Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Coke formation, leading to deactivation, is a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts minimize Pt usage and enhance catalytic properties, such as improved desorption of surface-bonded propylene. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene selectivity to 90%. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's rate is influenced by operating conditions, highlighting the need for controlled environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical industry faces the challenge of high-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The endothermic reaction requires continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days address the issue of coke formation, a byproduct of high temperatures, which necessitates frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges of cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to more coke. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single experiment using TEOM/GC. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to prevent deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition, enhancing CeO2's oxygen storage and mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to address coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor co-feeding, almost eliminating coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state after oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is complexly related to coke amount and nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to pressure drop. Improving coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, show improved longevity by reducing coking. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based ones, is ongoing, aiming for more efficient propene production processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, degrading performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures can decrease propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. This structure also facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene and prevents Pt and Zn atom segregation, further enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, with single-atom Pt, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke formation, enhancing stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially with CCR technology, enable stable activity over years. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates catalyst deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for meeting the growing demand for propene, as traditional production methods fall short. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn addition to enhance propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts remains a significant challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, which improve propylene selectivity and stability, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance the desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit its further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates and deactivating effects. Studies suggest only a portion of coke causes deactivation, with temperature playing a key role. Hydrogen cannot remove formed coke but can prevent its formation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production due to the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and produce polymer-quality purity. The number of PDH installations is growing, driven by the shift to shale-based ethane in the US and the industry's pursuit of more efficient technologies. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they're costly and hazardous, respectively. Research suggests iron-based materials as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate coke formation and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition, enhancing CeO2's oxygen storage and mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, leading to higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers high efficiency and durability, outperforming Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage in propane, with activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. Industrial PDH operates at high temperatures (550-625°C) for dehydrogenation, producing propene for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research hotspot due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects and isn't always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, marking significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu. Key reaction conditions include temperatures around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which increases their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly degrading performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) serves as a highly efficient and stable single-atom catalyst (SAC) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), a commercial propylene production method. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propene, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains intact, shows outstanding performance. PtGaPb/SiO2 exhibits 30% conversion with 99.6% selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn to boost propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, for instance, significantly improve propylene selectivity to 90% by enhancing desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to reduce deactivation cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn, alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene adsorption and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation but not remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and low olefin selectivity. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is endothermic, requiring continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days to combat coke formation, a challenge impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking can be obtained using a TEOM/GC system. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration to mitigate this issue, maintaining activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering high propene selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing catalytic performance. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher durability and lower coke formation, and oxidative regeneration to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are critical. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) are highlighted for their ability to enhance propene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, and achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, maintaining high propene formation rates and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but can lead to coke formation, affecting catalyst efficiency. Pt-based catalysts, particularly with Sn promoters, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes. However, coke formation during PDH significantly affects catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations using DFT offer insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address high reaction temperatures and catalyst stability issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves selectivity and stability by facilitating propylene desorption and preventing coke side reactions, thus enhancing catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, such as Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economically viable conversions but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to improve propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals facilitate electron transfer to Pt, minimizing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, as the price difference between propane and propylene benefits the process. Dehydrogenation is advantageous for producing a specific olefin, unlike mixed products from other methods, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry is expanding. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock in the US highlights the industry's move towards more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step is endothermic, requiring heat content maintenance in the catalyst bed. A PtSn-based catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously for uninterrupted product flow, and the catalyst is regenerated every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    