Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Key challenges include cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive systems provide insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor cracking reactions, while larger ones favor dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts, demonstrating the advantage of using TEOM/GC systems for deriving comprehensive information from a single catalysis experiment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under controlled temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and have prompted research into earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques, crucial for maintaining catalyst performance and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt catalysts follow the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, thanks to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites and adjustable crystallite size that enhance propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. To reduce coke, strategies include employing ZrO2 for its higher activity and durability, and using oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, efficiently produces propene at 520°C under atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly boost propene selectivity to 90% and stability over extended periods, effectively tackling coke formation that hinders efficiency. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles are employed to regenerate catalyst activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting coke formation on Pt catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an economical route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. Adding Cu as a promoter to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke formation and enhance stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency and addressing the critical challenge of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts being prominent in UOP's Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, and facilitating its desorption, thus preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst integrity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability challenges. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. Modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available improves PDH selectivity and stability. Pb-modified PtGa shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, utilizing Pt-based catalysts for their high activity, further enhanced by Sn for improved selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts optimize noble metal usage, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing over-dehydrogenation. Notably, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, ensures the most positively charged single Pt atom is both the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation, effectively mitigating coke formation, a primary challenge leading to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism requiring further understanding. Optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design can minimize coke formation, enhancing propene productivity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15, reduces coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, decreasing coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions and its ability to yield pure olefins. The global expansion of PDH installations is driven by the availability of cheap natural gas liquids like ethane, replacing oil-based naphtha. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The process is continuous, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to combat the challenge of coke formation, which necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and amounts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with small Pt particles favoring cracking and larger ones promoting dehydrogenation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane under specific conditions. Common catalysts are Pt and Cr, with research on safer, earth-abundant iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, crucial for maintaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size and shape, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition enhances Pt redistribution and catalyst stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type, with ZrO2 emerging as an efficient and durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds and enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation are effective strategies. Industrial PDH applications, particularly with ZrO2, show higher activity and durability, allowing cost-effective regeneration through carbon deposit removal.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state, with activity loss not simply correlated to coke amount. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs are key catalysts affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs notably reduce coke formation, a significant efficiency hurdle, by improving propylene desorption, ensuring high selectivity and stability. Oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke deposition that can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, are enhanced by promoter elements like Sn to reduce coking and extend their lifetime. Research aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts, used in commercial processes, facing coke formation challenges that impair performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, are crucial as they promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further propylene dehydrogenation, thus preventing coke formation. These sites, characterized by geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1, enhance selectivity and stability by avoiding coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation, crucial for efficient propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, but high temperatures lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are vital. PtPt ensembles in Pt-based catalysts are active but prone to side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with its stable (111) surface, is promising. The Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions, necessitating modification. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains active, shows high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but suffer from deactivation due to coke formation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts optimize noble metal use, improve propylene desorption, and prevent over-dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene, by adjusting the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers a solution to curb deep dehydrogenation, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being pivotal in Oleflex processes. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation on these catalysts poses a significant challenge, as the mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation enables optimization of reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke. The rate of coke formation is sensitive to operating conditions, with temperature playing a critical role.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. New PDH installations are increasing globally. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is managed by temperature adjustments to maintain activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates and coke content compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke formation can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency and reducing operation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, with temperature and pressure as critical factors. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their costs and toxicity prompt exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hampers efficiency; employing phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, leading to coke formation, especially under high temperatures, reducing selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying the Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution and stability, CeO2 promoters to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and dopants to prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, and TiOx species can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitating C-H bond cleavage. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ by removing carbon deposits, and optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, highlighting the effectiveness of water vapor in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) is pivotal for propene production, achieving 90% selectivity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, a key efficiency challenge, and successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces a critical challenge: high temperatures promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an economically competitive route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins, thanks to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, operating at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts, notably in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size, as evidenced by industry practices and computational simulations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy with a 1:1 molar ratio enhances selectivity and stability by facilitating propane's initial and secondary C-H cleavage, preventing further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This mechanism, involving [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, inhibits coke side reactions and promotes propylene desorption, effectively avoiding coke formation and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to severe catalyst deactivation at high temperatures, primarily from coke formation. Developing stable catalysts is crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but lead to coke formation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high propylene selectivity and stability at 600°C, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without shutdowns. PDH produces light olefins, like propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt/Sn catalysts, is crucial for propene production. Coke formation on Pt catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is pivotal for propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K can lower coking rates by supplying mobile electrons. Supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, can reduce coke by weakening propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate both its formation and deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity, with dozens of new PDH installations globally under construction. The US has shifted from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane due to the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields promote coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure as critical factors. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but costs and hazards lead to interest in iron-based options. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; phosphate can suppress coking, and regeneration strategies enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability, CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated through oxidation treatment, preserving their atomically dispersed state without chlorine, as demonstrated by their ability to revert to this state post-treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably reduce coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, ensuring high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke deposition, potentially sintering the catalyst. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on efficient catalysts, such as Co-based ones, and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, aims to reduce energy consumption and improve process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, converting propane from abundant natural gas reserves. High temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face issues with coke formation and low propene selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts, as seen with PtCu/Al2O3, can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. This approach inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and cracking towards lighter hydrocarbons, while increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, as supported by computational simulations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles act as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity and inhibiting further dehydrogenation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and facilitating the desorption of surface-bound propylene, thus avoiding coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures causes catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for industrial use. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a viable solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, with single-atom Pt catalyzing initial CH activation and minimizing coke formation, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene and isobutylene. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt/Sn catalysts are preferred for their high activity and selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts enhance selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage and reducing coke formation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene have shown effectiveness in enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, resulting in high propylene selectivity and reduced coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby decreasing catalyst deactivation. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propene productivity, as hydrogen can reduce coke formation rates and deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing pure propene, favored by current market conditions. The petrochemical industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, regenerating catalysts every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a solid oxygen carrier or hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with efficiency influenced by temperature and pressure. Common catalysts like Pt and Cr are costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives such as iron-based materials. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, which reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, where propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, leads to catalyst deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering, and core-shell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Core-shell catalysts reduce propylene adsorption and increase selectivity. Selecting supports and using dopants like TiOx enhance catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production, offering enhanced selectivity and durability over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx at high temperatures. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further reduce coke include optimal crystallite size design and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor utilization, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production, with optimal conditions featuring high temperatures and a balanced propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene selectivity and stability, even at elevated temperatures, by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, thus maintaining high selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can hinder efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this issue, and catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, needing high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts decreases coking, extending catalyst life. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to boost efficiency and cut energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters like Cu, enhancing stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures over 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts being employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH process. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the importance of controlling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, enhance thermal stability and efficiency. These ensembles promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. They prevent coke formation by facilitating the desorption of surface-bound propylene and maintain Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high PDH temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 while keeping Pt1 intact, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn for selectivity, face deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, is predicted to enhance activity and reduce deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a key propene production technique since the 1980s, employs Pt-based catalysts widely in commercial processes. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, with the mechanism still unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to provide mobile electrons, reducing coking rates, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen is effective in suppressing coke precursor formation, thus reducing catalyst deactivation, but it cannot remove already formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments, with regeneration cycles every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with optimal conditions affecting its yield. Common catalysts like Pt and Cr have drawbacks, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives such as iron. A significant challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. To address this, strategies include using phosphate and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity, ensuring process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical challenge. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as a superior catalyst, offering enhanced activity and durability compared to Pt-based options. ZrO2 facilitates homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes, making it industrially relevant. Its activity is controlled by crystallite size, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, removing lattice oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor co-feeding, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium (Quote [1]). If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations (Quote [2]). PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts (Quote [3]), with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation (Quote [10]). Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel (Quotes [50], [51]). Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys such as PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Optimal conditions involve high temperatures and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu SAAs are notable for reducing coke formation, improving propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs offer high propene formation and low deactivation rates, with catalyst regeneration achievable through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption for lower-temperature PDH, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, converting propane to olefins efficiently. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant coke formation and reduced propylene selectivity. Strategies like the addition of Cu to Pt-based catalysts, as exemplified in PtCu/Al2O3, can effectively suppress coke formation and the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, thereby enhancing process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Metal (Pt) and oxide (Cr) catalysts are employed, with Pt catalysts excelling in selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration occurs via coke combustion. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, as well as utilizing Cu and Zn and modifying supports. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs address high reaction temperature issues by providing isolated Pt1 sites with enhanced thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. This structure prevents coke side reactions, promotes desorption of surface-bound propylene, and enhances stability by avoiding coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production demands high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and excellent selectivity under harsh conditions, stabilizing single-atom Pt at high temperatures and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt/Sn catalysts excelling in propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include using single-atom catalysts, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which enhance propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, thus boosting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is crucial for propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and boost propene output. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to provide mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation rates are highly dependent on conditions, and hydrogen can suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation, though it cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield high-purity olefins, with dozens of new PDH installations expanding globally. The petrochemical industry's shift to shale-based ethane highlights the search for economical feedstock. A PtSn catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, lasting 2-3 years with temperature adjustments for constant activity. Continuous operation is designed for an uninterrupted product stream, with a cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to maintain efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, yet faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for process efficiency. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, thus optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though research explores cost-effective, earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing resistant catalysts, with thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. High temperatures enhance propylene interaction with Pt, promoting coke formation. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized by ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds and controls active site concentration for enhanced propene selectivity, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical challenge in PDH efficiency, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, critical for maintaining conversion. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys, enhance propene desorption and mitigate coke formation, achieving high selectivity and stability. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke's efficiency challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting coke formation and catalyst sintering. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can have their lifetime extended by adding Sn. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to lower PDH temperatures, reducing energy consumption and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, operates at high temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are crucial in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to prevent coke from covering catalysts and blocking active sites, thus enhancing efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by preventing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propylene production, but high temperatures lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable PDH catalysts, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, are essential for industry. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, addresses thermal stability issues. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites while preserving single-atom Pt, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and selectivity for propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the late 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn for improved propylene selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include utilizing single-atom catalysts and Pt dispersed on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also boost the activity of supported Pt atoms and reduce deep dehydrogenation, addressing the coke formation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to lower coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates. Understanding and controlling the mechanism of coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. It yields high-purity olefins and is expanding globally, with a shift to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and amounts, impacting catalyst lifetime and regeneration costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can promote selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, with particle size significantly influencing coke formation. Smaller particles cause higher coke content, affecting catalyst performance. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure critical for selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives like iron due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure improves selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and coke formation. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and dopants improve catalyst stability and selectivity. TiOx species increase Pt's electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 as a preferred catalyst due to its high selectivity and durability. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active sites, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for lower coke formation and oxidative regeneration to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit very low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts used commercially. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel can improve sintering resistance. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys is pivotal for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst types like PtSn and PtZn affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs notably reduce coke formation, improving propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which promotes coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows promise for lower-temperature PDH, improving energy efficiency and commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, leveraging abundant natural gas for economic production. High temperatures needed for propene yield, however, cause thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can mitigate coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. This strategy inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and cracking reactions, while increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt favored for its selectivity and durability in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, aiding in the development of more efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability at high temperatures by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving propylene desorption, and mitigating coke side reactions, thus boosting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures for adequate yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, showing 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. This demonstrates high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, crucial for continuous and highly selective propylene production in PDH at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. Endothermic reactions use heat from catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, critical for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts promoted by Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts leads to deactivation, but atomically dispersed Pt, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance selectivity and stability. Doped graphene modifies the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, potentially increasing activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and highly dependent on operating conditions, emphasizing the need for optimized reaction conditions to enhance propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. PDH uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a cycle of catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss of activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for on-purpose propylene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, acting as a promoter. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propene production, involves hydrogen removal from propane. Critical factors are reaction conditions and catalyst choice, with recent studies favoring earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based catalysts over traditional Pt and Cr catalysts due to cost and hazards. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impairs efficiency, but phosphate can suppress coking, and implementing regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond cleavage. Catalyst deactivation is mainly due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Optimizing the Pt surface structure is crucial for enhancing selectivity and controlling coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting appropriate supports. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 efficiently produces propene by homolytically cleaving C-H bonds in propane, offering a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled to optimize propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation, eliminating chlorine needs and aiding regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys, enhance selectivity and activity by improving propylene desorption, even at high temperatures, and mitigate coke formation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures, leading to deactivation. Enhancing catalyst lifetime is achieved by adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts, which reduces coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical process for converting propane to propene, a vital petrochemical, but high temperatures required for the endothermic reaction promote coke formation on catalysts, leading to deactivation. Pt-based catalysts are highly active and stable but face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts are effective but are limited by toxicity concerns. PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts mitigate coke formation and suppress the production of lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst regeneration. Strategies like adding Cu to the catalyst improve stability and selectivity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation and improving the overall efficiency of PDH for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored for its selectivity and durability in Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, and modifying support properties, as computational simulations reveal deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs enhance efficiency by improving selectivity and stability. These catalysts promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation through a geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site, facilitating propylene desorption and maintaining stability by structurally ordering Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, where the Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3, leaving single-atom Pt intact. Tested in PDH at 600-650°C, PtGaPb/SiO2 showed 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation, minimizes coke formation, and improves selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing stored heat from catalyst regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, essential for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, crucial for propene production, employs Pt/Sn catalysts for enhanced selectivity. Coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation, is a significant challenge. Mitigation strategies, including atomically dispersed Pt, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, improve selectivity and stability, preventing excessive dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess electrons to reduce coking, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions, highlighting the importance of controlling hydrogen levels and catalyst structure to enhance process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity, with a growing global presence. The US petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to ethane, addressing high-energy demands and low selectivity. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. Catalyst lifespan is 2-3 years, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration every 5-10 days combats activity loss from coke formation, a critical challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size is critical: smaller particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Coke formation can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes, as indicated by research findings (quotes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 13, 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs catalysts like Pt and Cr under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Earth-abundant alternatives, notably iron, are considered due to cost and toxicity issues. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to address this include using promoters such as phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration techniques to sustain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, and CeO2 promotion for oxygen mobility and coke reduction. Alloying Pt, selecting supports, and using dopants also prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration, enhancing catalyst performance. Coreshell Pt catalysts offer improved efficiency and selectivity, while TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type, with ZrO2 offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts due to its efficient C-H bond cleavage in propane. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, contributing to cost minimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) is pivotal for propene production, offering high selectivity and stability. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively manage coke formation, a critical issue that reduces catalyst efficiency. These SAAs exhibit reduced deactivation and high propene yield, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts, risking deactivation. Promoters like Sn enhance Pt catalysts' lifetime, while Co-based catalysts show potential for commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Cr catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial processes. However, coke formation significantly hampers Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations reveal the complex network of reactions leading to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs with [PtZn4] active sites are pivotal. Electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and facilitating propylene desorption, which improves catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Single-atom catalysts face aggregation at high temperatures, but single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa offers a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites, keeping single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Platinum-based catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity over years, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies, like single-atom catalysts, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, improve selectivity and stability, preventing further dehydrogenation and boosting PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 80s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output, and designing active catalysts with minimized coke. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rate and deactivating effect, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from market conditions that capitalize on the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins optimized for polymer production. The industry is expanding with new PDH installations, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The process uses PtSn-based catalysts under specific conditions, but faces the challenge of coke formation, which reduces catalyst efficiency over time. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers, aiming to improve catalyst regeneration and maintain process efficiency. The catalyst remains in use for 2-3 years, with activity loss countered by gradual temperature increases. The high temperatures required for high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets enhancing DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and hazardous, prompting research into alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of Pt surface structure, weakening propylene adsorption, and modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution, while CeO2 promotion boosts oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts with unsaturated Zr sites, offering an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Controlling ZrO2's crystallite size boosts propene selectivity and mitigates coke formation, a major efficiency issue in PDH. ZrO2 facilitates in situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies to combat coke formation include employing ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated through oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs PtM alloy catalysts, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which enhance propene selectivity and stability. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively manage coke formation, a key efficiency barrier, maintaining high propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling coke deposition that diminishes selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures aims to improve efficiency and mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like Cu addition to Pt catalysts can suppress coke formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency. This addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a key consideration in PDH for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and oxide (Cr) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, noted for selectivity and durability, are employed in Oleflex. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by facilitating the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, preventing further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions. This structure promotes propene desorption, avoiding coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, thus improving catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying with Sn enhances selectivity. Incorporating single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is effective. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, keeping Pt1 sites active for highly selective PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt minimizes coke formation, enhancing stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showcasing long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Heat for endothermic reactions is supplied by catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, enhancing stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional routes. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal selectivity, which is improved by adding Sn. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which significantly improve surface-bonded propylene desorption, achieving 90% propylene selectivity and prohibiting further dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts show that coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures favor coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    