Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, leading to cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to improve stability, and CeO2 to reduce coke deposition. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, is influenced by reaction conditions such as temperature and pressure. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, with activity controlled by crystallite size. This makes it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and optimal crystallite sizes for propene selectivity. Oxidative regeneration techniques can also restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's (CeO2) redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor to PtSn catalysts keeps coke content below 1wt% after 6 hours at 680°C, whereas its absence increases coke content to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to issues like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst fully deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu is vital for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Strategies like adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduce coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu as a promoter can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex commercial processes for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address high reaction temperatures and catalyst instability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves propene selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propene. The ordered crystalline structure of PtZn IMAs enhances thermal stability and prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt3 sites. Modifying Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active is key for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, with Pb blocking threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at temperatures above 580°C. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga preventing Pb diffusion. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for meeting the growing demand for propene, as traditional methods are insufficient. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn promoters, are used for their high activity and selectivity, but coke formation remains a significant challenge causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, influenced by the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is advantageous for producing specific olefins and achieving polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is expanding. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the search for more economical feedstock. The endothermic reaction requires a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method that can address propylene supply shortfalls. Major challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce product selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being traditional but costly and hazardous options. Recent research highlights promising, earth-abundant iron-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, challenging selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. They have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, enhancing selectivity. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx increases Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using catalysts like ZrO2, is influenced by reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene output. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for chemicals. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, though chlorine has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for propane conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH shows promise in improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face deactivation due to coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an effective industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address high-temperature challenges by enhancing selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus preventing coke formation. This structure improves stability by prohibiting coke side reactions and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts, atomically dispersed on oxide supports, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact. SiO2-supported PtGaPb catalysts, reduced at 700 °C, show outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at 600 °C, with 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production is achieved at high temperatures without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. Stability tests at 650 °C show gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat generated during catalyst regeneration and direct fuel combustion. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, maintains stable activity without reactor shutdowns, enabling large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include single-atom catalysts, Pt on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which enhance propene selectivity and stability, minimize noble metal usage, and prohibit further dehydrogenation, thus improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate and minimize cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production typically uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility and coke reduction, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx enhances catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts, notably ZrO2, which, due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, mitigating coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH efficiency. Strategies include using ZrO2 for in-situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and maximizing propene yield, crucial for chemical industry applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures of 550-700°C for propane conversion. However, high temperatures promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is also promising.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). Economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation (Quote 5), PDH faces challenges as an endothermic, equilibrium-limited reaction requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face limitations due to coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10, 11). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex commercial PDH for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of Pt1M1 IMA SACs addresses high reaction temperature challenges by improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 sites promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene production. These sites also inhibit further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The [PtZn4] ensembles' stability ensures desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation at high temperatures necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propylene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is crucial for selective PDH. However, the Pt3 site promotes further CH(C) scissions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. This catalyst retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt serving as a key catalyst due to its high activity. However, its selectivity to propylene is improved by adding Sn as a promoter. The main challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom Pt catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability by inhibiting side reactions. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene output. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is advantageous for producing a specific olefin, not a mix, and can achieve polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and low olefin selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, decreasing due to the reaction's endothermic nature. A PtSn catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system runs continuously for uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply shortfalls. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking to C1, C2, or surface carbon. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity and increased CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they're costly and hazardous, leading to interest in earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by high coking rates on small Pt clusters. To address this, rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity. Strategies to weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, is efficient due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active sites, enhancing propene selectivity. This catalyst offers industrial relevance and durability, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and employing oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. To address this, using promoter elements like Sn can extend catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on novel catalysts, such as Co-based ones, and exploring microwave irradiation to enhance PDH efficiency at lower temperatures, are current interests.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propylene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts used in the Oleflex commercial process from UOP, featuring regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, despite high selectivity and durability, face the challenge of coke formation, which hampers performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloys (IMAs) are pivotal, featuring isolated Pt1 sites that enhance thermal stability and selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of propylene, preventing coke formation and ensuring the segregation resistance of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available improves PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH units produce light olefins, like propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles enhance propene selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation. Doped graphene strategies further tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is shifting to shale-based ethane for steam cracking. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures favor coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges with long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or further crack, influenced by Pt particle size, where smaller sizes favor CC bond activation (cracking) and larger sizes favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing Pt surface structures rationally enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration improve performance. Coreshell Pt catalysts offer enhanced efficiency and selectivity, while suitable supports modify catalytic performance effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, a key component in plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using alternative catalysts like ZrO2, which exhibits higher durability and lower coke formation rates, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), are critical for selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving an endothermic conversion of propane to propene. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, notably PtZn IMAs, enhance efficiency and stability. These catalysts disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, improving thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the initial and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus significantly improving selectivity and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, especially those that can withstand high temperatures without deactivation, is crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. However, severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering is a challenge, necessitating continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites, with the Ga3 moiety supporting isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene yield, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K, or using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to reduce coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation but not removing existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects its increasing importance. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies due to high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The reaction, using a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously for uninterrupted product flow. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Key challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke. The size of Pt particles significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Using a TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives. Iron-based materials show promise. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting supports to improve performance. Coreshell catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation in propane, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment without chlorine, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion rates, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved with Sn promoters, which extend catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation that deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability, addressing a critical PDH challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, face a significant challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and stability. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes the initial C-H cleavage of propane, favoring propylene production while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption, thus mitigating Pt and Zn atom segregation and coke buildup.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, which are improved by adding Sn as a promoter. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen's role is twofold: it suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and produce polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction worldwide. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking is driven by the availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under specific conditions, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but expensive and hazardous, respectively. Recent research highlights iron-based materials as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical issue, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing catalyst stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration from active sites. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes, with activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with higher durability and lower coke formation rates. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but ZrO2-based catalysts can regenerate in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. PDH, typically performed at 550-625 degrees Celsius, is crucial for the chemical industry's production of propene, a key component in plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas without it, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Commercial processes use supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts, with supported Pt catalysts being a research hotspot. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, demonstrating high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can sinter the catalyst. To mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, adding Sn has proven effective, increasing catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are developed to address these issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst performance and stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) produces propylene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high PDH temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb/SiO2 catalysts show 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn to improve propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include using single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, such as Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which boost propylene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and stable configuration with first-principles calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels to mitigate coking. Alkali metals provide electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by economic and environmental factors. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Constructing Pt surface structures improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to enhance Pt-based catalysts include modifying their structures, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt-based catalysts. These sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes, and their concentration can be controlled by adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing overall costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. Oxidative regeneration techniques can also remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen's oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be enhanced by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of sintered Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. PtSn/CeO2 deactivated catalysts can be fully regenerated by coke burning, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Key reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, are crucial for selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but can lead to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which increases their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, it requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability, are used in commercial PDH processes, with regeneration involving coke combustion. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) enhances selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions. This improves selectivity and stability. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propene desorption, prevents coke formation, and avoids Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering under high-temperature conditions necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst, with its stable (111) surface displaying isolated and threefold Pt sites, is promising. However, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The high thermal stability and resistance to sintering of PtGaPb are demonstrated by its small particle sizes and intermetallic structure retention. The stability test at 650 °C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment using SiO2. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably platinum, with UOP's CCR technology enabling stable activity for years. PDH industrially produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to enhance propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts to improve selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields exclusive olefins, unlike mixed products from other methods, and is optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity of traditional processes, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The dehydrogenation step is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that also promote coke formation, a critical challenge impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall from conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they're costly and hazardous, prompting research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, is efficient due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts is durable and industrially relevant. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. High temperatures (550-625°C) and pressure are crucial for reaction efficiency. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity, along with its ability to regenerate through carbon deposit removal, make it a cost-effective choice for the CATOFIN process. Oxidative regeneration techniques can also restore catalyst activity by removing coke deposits.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving an endothermic conversion of propane to propene. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. To mitigate coking, strategies include using promoter elements like Sn, which enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability, addressing the critical issue of coke formation on Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, particularly PtZn IMAs, are crucial. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites that promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, significantly improving efficiency by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying it while keeping Pt1 sites active is needed for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation is achieved. PtGaPb maintains small particle sizes, intermetallic structure, and elemental distribution, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heated by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units for light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity and coke formation issues. Adding Sn to Pt enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts causes deactivation, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which significantly boost propene selectivity by 90% by enhancing desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce deactivation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Studies suggest that coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering high-purity olefins. The technique's on-purpose nature and optimized processes for polymer-quality olefins make it advantageous. With dozens of new PDH installations globally, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking. Seeking more efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for consistent activity. PtSn catalysts operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days, crucial for managing coke formation, which degrades catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigating its impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing Pt surface structures improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx improves selectivity and extends catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to remove carbon deposits, optimizing the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering resistance can be achieved with Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, including PtSn, PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, PtGe, and PtCu, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion, but this also promotes side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. Its economic viability is bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propylene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Catalysts include metal (e.g., platinum) and metal oxide (e.g., chromium oxide), with platinum used in the Oleflex process for its high selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration employs coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. However, coke formation significantly degrades performance, with strategies including co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn, using transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloys (IMAs) enhance selectivity and stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is crucial for PDH, while the Pt3 site promotes undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance decline. This catalyst retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by adding Sn as a promoter. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability, and single-atom catalysts that minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions, with an exclusive yield of propene. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction globally, driven by the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step is endothermic, requiring PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts are regenerated every 5-10 days to counteract activity loss over 2-3 years. High temperatures for high olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration helping mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. To address this, modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports are effective strategies. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) produces propene by activating the C-H bond in propane. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation treatment without chlorine, maintaining atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, demonstrating high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, where high temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for propane conversion, but also promote side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, while Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to lower energy consumption and improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to performance degradation. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address selectivity and stability issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by facilitating propylene desorption and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, which are improved by adding Sn. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption and reduce coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, specifically the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, with optimized industrial processes. The global increase in PDH installations reflects growing demand. Market shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking are driven by economic and environmental factors. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    