Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, reducing efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength suppresses deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing coke formation and poor stability. To boost propylene selectivity, Pt catalysts are modified by controlling Pt NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution and enhances stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers high efficiency and durability. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, effectively cleaves C-H bonds, making it a preferred alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Its active site concentration can be controlled, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; using ZrO2 mitigates this issue as it regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene. Designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes also minimizes coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and regeneration capabilities make it a cost-effective choice for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, utilizes catalysts like Pt/Cu SAAs, which enhance propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this issue. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, causing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH shows promise for commercialization and improved energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins, favored due to abundant natural gas. However, high temperatures required for the endothermic PDH lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, are preferred over Cr-based ones due to lower coke formation rates. Yet, coke formation and low propylene selectivity limit Pt catalysts' efficiency. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are crucial. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen and alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloys (IMAs) are developed to enhance thermal stability and selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus enhancing selectivity and stability by preventing coke formation. This structure facilitates propylene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is effective. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains, shows high performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt minimizes coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius. High propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn promoters for enhanced propylene selectivity, are key. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include utilizing single-atom catalysts, Pt/Cu nanoparticles for improved propylene desorption, and doped graphene to adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, thereby enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene yield, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coking. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen's presence can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, impacting catalyst efficiency. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but earth-abundant alternatives like iron are explored due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability. CeO2 promoters enhance oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. The critical challenge is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Its crystallite size adjusts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. In industrial applications, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. High activity and durability of ZrO2, along with oxidative regeneration techniques, combat coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is pivotal for propene production under conditions of 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu SAAs exhibit 90% propene selectivity and high stability, mitigating coke formation, which otherwise impairs efficiency. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates, which also promote side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, especially when promoted with Sn, show increased lifetime by mitigating coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins, especially with abundant natural gas resources (Quote 4). However, high temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, impacting catalyst efficiency (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impairs Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex employs coke combustion with chlorine-air.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propylene production method, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has a stable (111) surface and isolated Pt sites. However, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving high conversion and selectivity without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat supplied by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, outperforming traditional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles are strategies to boost propylene desorption, prevent further dehydrogenation, and achieve 90% selectivity. Doped graphene can optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity can reduce coking rates. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect, as studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. suggest.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation selectively yields high-purity olefins, with global PDH installations increasing. The US petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane. Seeking efficiency, the sector aims to reduce energy demands and improve selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures boost olefin yields but promote coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Challenges include long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases costs. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their cost and toxicity prompt interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies include employing phosphate to suppress coking and utilizing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is pivotal for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to byproduct formation, necessitating its strength reduction. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as a durable catalyst offering high propene selectivity by controlling active site concentration through crystallite size adjustment. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to maximize propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display <1wt% coke content post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces challenges at high temperatures, which promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing their longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins at a competitive cost due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst, thus improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are key, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process. However, coke formation significantly hinders catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, which blocks active sites and degrades catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs boosts propene selectivity and stability in production. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these SACs facilitate the initial dehydrogenation of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. This mechanism ensures surface-bound propylene desorption and prevents coke buildup, preserving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene at high temperatures, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for propene production. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, critical for conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt-Sn catalysts offering enhanced propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles are strategies to mitigate coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can further optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reducing the propensity for deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity like SBA-15, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts to enhance propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, unlike mixed products from other methods, and are expanding globally with numerous PDH installations. Shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock in the U.S. is driven by economic and technological factors. PDH uses PtSn catalysts at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures a steady product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yield also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls from conventional sources. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, indicating its role as a promoter.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, where temperature and pressure are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have cost and toxicity issues, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies such as using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques can mitigate this challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying Pt-based catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst use.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as a catalyst, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This catalyst offers higher activity and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species, making it industrially relevant. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further minimize coke formation include optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas without it, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is difficult, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs exhibit high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, addressing the efficiency impact of coke on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, needing high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, particularly with Sn, extend lifetime by minimizing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, valued for selectivity and durability, face a challenge from coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt size and using computational DFT simulations also offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical. These ensembles promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity and stability. They inhibit further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke side reactions and improving propylene desorption, thus mitigating coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are critical for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, offers a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third one, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production is achieved at high temperatures without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains its structure and size, demonstrating high thermal stability. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins like propylene and isobutylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt-based catalysts, is vital for propene production, with Sn addition enhancing selectivity. Coke formation is a major challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts improve propylene selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% selectivity by boosting propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates but not removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane highlight its economic appeal. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, with challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles enhance CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where propane loses hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are pivotal for efficiency. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but their high cost and toxicity prompt research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. To combat this, strategies include using promoters to prevent coking and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is pivotal for CC bond breaking, yet CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke, deactivating the catalyst. Small Pt clusters, with larger surface areas, accelerate coking and deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and controls coke. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting selectivity and stability. To improve selectivity, strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies, improving selectivity. Suitable supports effectively modify catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Its activity is controlled by crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts typically requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, by enhancing propylene desorption. This results in high selectivity (90%) and stability, even under high-temperature conditions, with a low deactivation rate, maintaining activity through successive oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for conversion but promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing coke formation and enhancing PDH process effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability are being explored. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures exceeding 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, as these have been shown to reduce coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts boost efficiency and stability. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] promotes propane dehydrogenation, enhances selectivity by inhibiting further propylene dehydrogenation, and prevents coke formation, ensuring catalyst stability and avoiding coke side reactions, critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a high-temperature process for propylene production, where catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant issue. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This demonstrates high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, crucial for continuous and highly selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt-based catalysts, augmented with Sn, excel in propylene selectivity. However, coke formation remains a critical challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, like Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, have been shown to significantly enhance propylene selectivity to 90% while effectively mitigating coke formation, thus improving catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial process since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking, and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation but not removing formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhancing propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, making it advantageous over processes with low selectivity. The industry is shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The PDH reaction, employing a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operates continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. The system cycles every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, bridging the supply gap from conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face challenges due to cost and toxicity, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters such as phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, and CeO2 promotion for reduced coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage in alkanes, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration, controllable by adjusting its crystallite size, enhances propene selectivity. In PDH applications for chemical industry propene production, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing durability in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting effective strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is crucial for propene production. Optimal reaction conditions and catalysts determine selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, maintaining high propylene formation and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) that promote both propane conversion and coke formation, a challenge for Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn are employed to reduce deactivation, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH shows promise in mitigating coke formation and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, bolstered by natural gas availability (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity (Quote 16). This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored in commercial applications for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades Pt catalyst performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and using transition metals. Controlling support properties and Pt catalyst size also helps. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles of Pt1M1 IMA catalysts are pivotal, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. These structures promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, preventing further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates propene desorption, avoiding coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are critical for industry. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt sites, is a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This catalyst stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, retains small particle sizes, and shows resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, with high propylene selectivity minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under pressure. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling support acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicts enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Hydrogen is shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but not removing formed coke. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process yields a specific olefin optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry's shift to more economical feedstock like shale-based ethane is reflected in the growing number of PDH installations worldwide. Using a PtSn-based catalyst under pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, the catalyst's activity is maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a cycle of catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps. Key challenges involve hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity compared to larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. A comprehensive analysis method reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), whereas larger ones are selective for CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have cost and toxicity issues, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation, with propylene selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, reducing activity but increasing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx enhance catalyst performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, using ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, facilitates homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated sites, controlled by crystallite size, mitigate coke formation, a critical PDH challenge, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. This enhances propene selectivity and minimizes overall costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor keeps coke content on PtSn catalysts below 1wt% after 6 hours at 680°C, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and PtCu determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane. High temperatures, crucial for high conversion, also promote coke formation, deactivating Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. The process, endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal (Pt) and oxide (Cr) catalysts are used, with Pt catalysts in Oleflex for regeneration via chlorine-air combustion against coke. Pt catalysts, despite selectivity and durability, face deactivation from coke, a byproduct of high-temperature reactions blocking active sites. Mitigation strategies include hydrogen co-feeding, Pt alloying with Sn or other metals, support modifications, and controlling Pt size, with DFT simulations aiding in understanding deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures pose challenges to selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhance thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability. This structure facilitates propylene desorption and prevents coke formation, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions. Modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites available is needed. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt, retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn promoters. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major deactivation cause. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing coke formation rate is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Studies suggest that coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation and its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price dynamics. Dehydrogenation offers exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity challenges. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. Continuous systems operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure critical for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, which reduces activity and selectivity. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene, strongly adsorbed, triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is critical. High temperatures strengthen Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. To improve selectivity, Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures are modified, including Pt NP size control, alloying with TMs or main-group metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution in regeneration, enhancing stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, reduce carbon deposition, and facilitate carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Catalysts show superior PDH performance, consistent with Xiao et al.'s findings. Dopants enhance selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst life. Suitable supports modify metal catalysts' performance for PDH. Electron transfer from partially reduced TiOx to Pt atoms increases electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers higher activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. In industrial applications, ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. High temperatures promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2's high selectivity towards propene production makes it a preferred catalyst. Coke formation can be further addressed through oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display <1wt% coke content post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with coke amount or nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys enhance propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates. However, high temperatures also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures shows promise in improving process efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The process is endothermic and requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face issues with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This addresses the need for catalysts that can withstand high temperatures and maintain efficiency over time.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for propene production, operating at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also critical, with single Pt atom catalysts showing promise. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with chlorine-air.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, are pivotal. These electron-rich Pt1 sites enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. The [PtZn4] ensembles also prevent coke formation, improving stability by prohibiting coke side reactions and avoiding Pt and Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt3 site in PtGa is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn promotion for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and catalytic properties enhancement, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking rates, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations globally reflect industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, influenced by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. The PDH process, using a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts maintain dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Regeneration cycles, completed every 5-10 days, are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates, impacting selectivity to C3H6. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives due to cost and toxicity concerns. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking, such as using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, are being investigated to enhance catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt structures, adding Sn for improved regeneration, using CeO2 to boost oxygen mobility, selecting appropriate supports, and employing dopants to prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance, while TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst for propene production is efficient and durable, with coordinatively unsaturated sites facilitating homolytic C-H bond cleavage. Optimal crystallite size design minimizes coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity, making ZrO2 superior to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. PDH operates at high temperatures for dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice critical for efficiency and selectivity. Oxidative regeneration techniques enhance ZrO2's performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, sans chlorine, for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloys under specific conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene selectivity (90%) for over 120 hours. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be improved with Sn to reduce coking and increase their lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an economically competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. Its economic viability is bolstered by abundant natural gas resources (Quote 6). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures (Quote 7), leading to coke formation on catalysts, which causes deactivation (Quote 8). Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability (Quote 10), are preferred but suffer from significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity (Quote 11). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16), improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or using Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt size, especially single atom catalysts, shows promise. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts enhance selectivity and stability by promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This structure prevents coke formation by promoting propylene desorption and maintaining the integrity of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to severe catalyst deactivation from coke formation at high temperatures, necessitating stable catalysts for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h without performance loss, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn improves propylene selectivity. To tackle coke formation, strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, achieving 90% propylene selectivity by enhancing desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a key commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, central to Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains elusive. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions, reducing dehydrogenation cycles, and enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and dependence on operating conditions underscore the need for controlled reaction environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions and optimized for polymer-quality olefin purity. Its growing global installations reflect its importance. The shift to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by its high availability and lower cost. The petrochemical industry adapts to high-energy demands and low selectivity by seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, with catalyst activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. A PtSn catalyst operates under optimal conditions for olefin yields, but high temperatures also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use, preserving catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets enhancing catalysts for higher DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond active sites. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method influenced by temperature, pressure, and catalyst choice. Traditional Pt and Cr catalysts are costly and toxic, leading to the exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on smaller Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, which lowers propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports to improve selectivity. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is significantly influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. By controlling ZrO2's crystallite size, the concentration of active sites can be adjusted, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes. Industrial PDH applications, such as propene production for the chemical industry, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration in processes like CATOFIN.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is complexly related to coke amount and nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's conversion effect. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Optimal conditions include 520°C and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu SAAs boost propene selectivity and stability, addressing coke formation, a major efficiency hurdle. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts diminishes selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at high temperatures. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures that promote both conversion and coke formation, potentially sintering the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, notably with Sn promoters, have extended lifetimes by minimizing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH suggests potential for enhanced efficiency and lower temperatures, promising for future commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. (Quote 4) PDH is seen as a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) The reaction is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures. (Quote 9) Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity and thermal stability. (Quote 16) Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are essential, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can severely impact performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn intermetallic alloy catalysts, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, significantly boost propene selectivity and stability by promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This mechanism prevents coke side reactions, improving selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption, further enhancing stability by avoiding coke formation and preventing Pt and Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts, like Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, are crucial. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa addresses this. The Pt3 site in PtGa is active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable these sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, allowing long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for the process, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, necessitate Sn promoters for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant hurdle, leading to catalyst deactivation. To tackle this, strategies include employing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, utilizing single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and leveraging Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene can be used to fine-tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and curtailing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output. Catalyst design can reduce coke formation while maintaining activity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 can lower coking rates. Coking rate is influenced by operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, optimized for polymer-quality olefins. With global PDH expansion, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, addressing high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step, heat-dependent, uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while conducive to high olefin yields, promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, compensating for conventional cracker shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets catalysts that boost DHP while curbing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size profoundly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can paradoxically enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 hinges on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with larger Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies, such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration, help maintain process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to enhance Pt-based catalysts include controlling size and shape, alloying, and selecting appropriate supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, while CeO2 enhances oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density, hindering propylene adsorption, and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. Its activity can be controlled by adjusting crystallite size, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. High temperatures around 550-625 degrees Celsius promote dehydrogenation, and ZrO2 shows high selectivity towards propene. Alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs under controlled conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation that reduces efficiency. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) that promote conversion but also coke formation, leading to Pt-based catalyst sintering. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, aiming to boost efficiency and reduce energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, a critical petrochemical, but requires high temperatures that promote coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke and reduced propene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt catalysts suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a high-temperature industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH like Oleflex, face a critical challenge: coke formation, which hinders performance by covering catalysts and blocking active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, utilizing transition metals like Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. These approaches aim to improve efficiency and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, significantly boost efficiency and stability. These catalysts promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, which mitigates coke side reactions, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propylene production, operates at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the catalyst retaining its structure and demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt/Sn catalysts enhancing selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation. Doped graphene strategies optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide excess electrons to Pt, while supports like SBA-15 weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation's rate is highly dependent on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction, reflecting a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    