Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical issue, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering durability and high activity over Pt-based alternatives. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage in propane, with optimal performance achieved by controlling crystallite size. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further minimize coke formation include designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes for enhanced propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with increased coke content (0.5 to 2.8wt%) and decreased conversion without it. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs, influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. However, high temperatures promote side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Understanding and controlling these factors is crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMAs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption and prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, ensuring catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites, with Ga3 supporting isolated Pt1. However, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3, leaving single-atom Pt intact. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving high conversion and selectivity in PDH at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains its structure and elemental distribution, demonstrating high thermal stability. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially with CCR technology introduced in the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to boost propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles significantly improve propylene selectivity to 90% by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling hydrogen presence to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, highlighting its role in catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding a specific olefin with polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the technology's growing importance. Shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's adaptation to more economical feedstocks. The endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, which also promote coke formation, a critical challenge impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency. The use of PtSn-based catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C demonstrates the reaction conditions, while the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan, with activity maintained through temperature adjustments, showcases its operational characteristics. Continuous operation and catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days ensure an uninterrupted product stream.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants improve dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with its ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits, makes it a cost-effective choice for the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, causing a drop in conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, facilitating regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research hotspot due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing excellent stability and anti-coke capability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which increases their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts shows promise for future commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, crucial for various chemicals. Due to increasing propene demand and decreasing fossil reserves, PDH offers an economical alternative, especially with natural gas as a propane source. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts notably used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation during PDH significantly hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloys (IMAs) enhance selectivity and stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and improve desorption, effectively prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms. This mechanism significantly boosts selectivity and stability in propene production processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation. The high thermal stability and resistance to sintering of PtGaPb contribute to its outstanding performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K, or using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation, but it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, petrochemical industries address high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Using PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the system operates continuously. Regenerated catalysts complete cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Pt-based catalysts' performance can be enhanced by modifying their geometrical and electronic structures, such as alloying with metals and selecting appropriate supports. Addition of Sn aids in Pt redistribution during regeneration, enhancing stability. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and facilitate carbon migration from active sites. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. Partially reduced TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, with activity controlled by crystallite size. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with increased coke content (0.5 to 2.8wt%) and conversion drop without it. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, essential for conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propylene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts used in commercial Oleflex processes. Catalyst regeneration includes coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can degrade performance. PDH's complex network leads to coke at high temperatures, covering catalysts and blocking active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically atomically ordered Pt1Zn1, are critical. These catalysts disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. This structure prevents coke side reactions and promotes propylene desorption, mitigating coke formation and ensuring Pt and Zn atom segregation is avoided through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering under high-temperature conditions necessitates continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective for isolated Pt use but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enable stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts for their superior activity. Sn is added as a promoter to enhance propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and is favored by current market conditions. The technique is expanding globally, with new installations under construction. Ethane's availability has shifted the petrochemical industry towards more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures reduces catalyst efficiency, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method that can offset propylene supply gaps from conventional crackers. Key challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation on catalysts, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate coke formation and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding promoters like Sn and CeO2 to enhance stability and oxygen mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Selecting appropriate supports and modifying electronic structures can weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts contribute to cost minimization in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like Pt/Cu SAA, with single platinum atoms on copper nanoparticles, significantly enhance propene selectivity (90%) and stability, even under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as using Pt/Cu SAA, improve selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process restricted by thermodynamic equilibrium, requiring high temperatures of 550-700°C for propane conversion. At these temperatures, C-C bond reactivity leads to side reactions and coke deposition, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn, which has been shown to extend catalyst lifetime. Research on novel catalysts, such as Co-based, is ongoing, aiming for more efficient commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for improving PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propylene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, featuring regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts offer high selectivity and durability but face challenges with coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial, with computational simulations providing insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically PtZn IMAs, are pivotal. These catalysts disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability and selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation, thus improving stability and selectivity. This mechanism significantly enhances the efficiency of PDH by prohibiting coke side reactions and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where Pt is atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's size, which prevents its diffusion into PtGa. This leads to long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt serving as a key catalyst due to its high activity. However, its selectivity to propylene is improved by adding Sn as a promoter. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, displaying high propylene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles are particularly effective, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones prefer CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles suggest modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing coke formation and poor catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and TiOx to increase electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently activates the C-H bond in propane. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhanced by adjusting crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge in Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to minimize coke formation and maximize efficiency include using ZrO2 for its higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (around 520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAA mitigates this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, where high temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for propane conversion but also promote coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. To mitigate this, using promoter elements like Sn can extend the lifetime of Pt-based catalysts by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is also promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, which deactivates them (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C due to its endothermic nature. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts during PDH significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations have also provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, offering enhanced selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these SACs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This structure significantly improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propene desorption, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is crucial for PDH, while the Pt3 site promotes undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C enhance conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with continuous regeneration maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to enhance propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation is crucial, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by energy demands, selectivity issues, and oil prices. The endothermic PDH reaction uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced side reactions, prolonging catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis via TEOM/GC system reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. High coking rates on small Pt clusters result in faster deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, lowering selectivity. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts, notably ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size adjusts active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. As an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, ZrO2 offers durability and in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, mitigating coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation from coke, can be improved by employing ZrO2, which shows higher activity and lower coke formation rates, contributing to cost minimization in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using optimal crystallite sizes to maximize propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, but this can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key considerations. Catalyst types, like PtSn and Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) to achieve significant propane conversion. However, high temperatures promote side reactions and coke deposition, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, when promoted with Sn, show increased lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as demonstrated by the inhibited propylene adsorption and higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex employs coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly affecting performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs addresses high-temperature challenges. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles enhances stability by prohibiting coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering is inevitable under high-temperature conditions, necessitating continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying active metals with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective for isolated Pt use but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures above 600°C are essential for economic conversion, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. To mitigate this, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have selectivity issues, which are improved by adding Sn. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and dependence on operating conditions are highlighted.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects growing demand. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights changing feedstock preferences. High-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes drive the industry towards more efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures conducive to olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to significantly more coke. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles suggest modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using platinum (Pt) as a catalyst, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. High temperatures exacerbate this, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and alloying, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to improve stability, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite size design further minimizes coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and halide like chlorine, although chlorine has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a key industrial process for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature (around 520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio (1:1), are critical. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation, a major challenge that reduces catalyst efficiency. The Pt/Cu SAA demonstrates 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration achieved through oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, causing deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, PDH is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a critical challenge, degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs addresses high reaction temperature challenges. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure enhances propene selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing selectivity and stability. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst (PtGaPb) shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are attributed to the intermetallic PtGa structure and Pb modification. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for economic conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, have enabled stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts to improve selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize Pt usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Catalyst design can also minimize coking while maintaining activity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke is noted. The rate of coke formation is influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the US highlights the industry's search for more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. Key challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 is determined by the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being traditional but expensive or hazardous options. Recent research highlights promising iron-based catalysts as earth-abundant and environmentally benign alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Catalyst regeneration techniques can also restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength is critical; strong adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration to remove coke deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically catalyzed by PtM alloys. Key reaction conditions include atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving an endothermic conversion of propane to propene. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved by adding Sn, which enhances their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Promoters like Cu can enhance stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving catalyst efficiency. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with platinum favored in the Oleflex commercial process for its selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt size also influences reactivity and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are pivotal, addressing high reaction temperatures' challenges. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where the isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity. This structure inhibits further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and improving stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption and prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts, where active metals are dispersed on oxide supports, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active is needed for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost propylene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels to mitigate coke formation. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies offer an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the industry's shift towards more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies, spurred by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under controlled conditions, with continuous operation for uninterrupted product flow. Catalyst regeneration is crucial due to the endothermic nature of the reaction and the formation of coke at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges with long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing product selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis using TEOM/GC systems reveals activity, selectivity, and coking data. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking to C1, C2, or coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but expensive and hazardous, respectively. Recent research highlights promising iron-based catalysts as alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by platinum (Pt), follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, accelerated on small Pt clusters. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, such as alloying and support selection, increases propene selectivity under high-temperature conditions, where strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation and poor catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Optimal crystallite size enhances active site concentration, improving propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Industrial PDH applications target chemical industry needs. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing for cost-effective catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process. High-temperature PDH, around 550-625°C, promotes dehydrogenation, with ZrO2 showing high activity and selectivity. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques address coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. PtSn clusters on CeO2 are highly selective for PDH, and the deactivated catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a key industrial process for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1, are critical. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) are highlighted for their ability to enhance propene desorption, prohibiting further dehydrogenation, and achieving high selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, maintaining high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, show improved lifetime by reducing deactivation from coking. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based ones, and the use of microwave irradiation to lower energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, are promising strategies to enhance process efficiency and mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature and requirement for temperatures above 500 degrees Celsius. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are central to the process. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite their high selectivity and durability, Pt catalysts face the critical challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. These measures aim to control coke formation, preserving catalyst efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges with high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. The development of atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs addresses this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for side reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt catalysts, despite their high activity, require Sn as a promoter to enhance propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and leveraging hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, though it can't remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for producing propene, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is shifting to more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, endothermic in nature, uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method to bridge the propylene supply gap, yet it faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, reducing product selectivity and catalyst activity. Smaller Pt particles, while more active, are less selective and promote higher coke formation rates, impacting catalyst longevity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, crucial for prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter by deactivating sites prone to cracking, improving selectivity to propene. Strategies focus on optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to enhance CH bond activation for dehydrogenation over CC bond activation for cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a process for propene production, involves propane's C-H bond activation. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with its ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits, make it a cost-effective choice for the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion, while introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) showing high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation by enhancing propene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, maintaining high propene selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, show improved longevity by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for energy-efficient PDH at lower temperatures is promising for future commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, significantly degrading performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs addresses high-temperature challenges. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs serve as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles enhances thermal stability and prohibits coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping the Pt1 site active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks the threefold Pt site, shows outstanding catalytic performance at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first two CH activations while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the catalyst retaining its structure and demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter for better propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, to reduce coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production due to market conditions and its on-purpose technique yielding high-purity olefins. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane for efficiency. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for 2-3 years with temperature adjustments to maintain activity. Catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days is crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but they are expensive and hazardous, respectively. Recent research highlights promising PDH catalysts based on inexpensive, non-toxic iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing alternative catalysts with high resistance to coking. Catalyst regeneration techniques, such as thermal treatment under an oxidizing atmosphere, can also be employed to remove coke and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Strongly adsorbed propylene leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, challenging selectivity. High temperatures intensify side reactions, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80% and catalyst stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, and using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's activity can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; using ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature (520°C), pressure (atmospheric), and propane-to-nitrogen ratio (1:1). Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu SAAs showing high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this, enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. High temperatures promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are employed, with platinum-based catalysts used in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed on oxide supports, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa surface has isolated and threefold Pt sites, with the Ga3 moiety supporting the isolated Pt1 atom. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites available. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first and second CH activation while inhibiting the third, minimizing side reactions to coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's atomic size preventing diffusion into PtGa. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures above 600°C boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles, which significantly improve propene selectivity by 90% and reduce deep dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Alkali metals like Li, Na, and K provide excess electrons to Pt, reducing coking rates. Supports like SBA-15 weaken propylene adsorption, further reducing coke. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane is evident. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. PtSn-based catalysts operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system. Regenerated catalysts complete cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    