Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, addressing propylene supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, alongside regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation is due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene's strong adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, lowering selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently activates the C-H bond in propane for propene production, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhanced by controlled crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds. Its higher activity and durability mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge in Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity, vital for the chemical industry's production of propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated by the redox properties of CeO2 and the performance of PtSn catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts, such as Pt/Cu SAAs, enhance propylene desorption and selectivity, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this issue, improving catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production at temperatures above 500°C, employs Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in the Oleflex commercial process. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability at high temperatures by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by preventing coke side reactions and maintaining the integrity of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites intact achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, critical for propene production, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to coke formation leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, achieving 90% propene selectivity by improving desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation, crucial for addressing the shortfall of traditional methods and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but it cannot remove formed coke. Alkali metals like Li, Na, and K help reduce the coking rate by providing excess mobile electrons to the Pt catalyst. Supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, reduce coke formation by weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing its dehydrogenation or polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a preferred method for propene production, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. It yields polymer-quality olefins and is optimized for continuous operation. Market trends show a rise in PDH installations, influenced by the shift to shale-based ethane in the US. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation, a major challenge, necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters issues with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst performance. Research targets enhancing DHP rates while reducing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to increased coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke enhancing selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene from propane by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity prompt research into alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and efficiency; using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue, restoring catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with less negative propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing ZrO2 with unsaturated Zr sites for efficient C-H bond cleavage, offers an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys under atmospheric pressure, efficiently produces propene at 520°C with a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, PtGe, and PtCu impact selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency; however, Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for converting propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization, and microwave irradiation is explored to improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process. The inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3 reduces coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, while a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses methane formation, crucial for catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in UOP's Oleflex process for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability by inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene and preventing coke side reactions. These ensembles also promote propylene desorption, further improving stability by avoiding coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for increasing propene yields, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on balancing propene desorption with side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable (111) surface has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites, retaining single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. This modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional methods' limitations. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for selectivity, face the challenge of coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhances activity and reduces deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, with global PDH installations rapidly growing. The U.S. shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by abundant cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks efficient feedstock and technologies due to high energy demands and rising oil prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The process is continuous, with a cycle every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply. However, challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Understanding the role of Pt particle size and coke formation is critical for optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where temperature and pressure are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have cost and toxicity issues, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is significantly influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering a superior alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts in industrial applications. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability in the CATOFIN process reduce overall costs through carbon deposit removal, making it a preferred choice for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Converting hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering challenges. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions: atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH shows promise for future commercialization and improved energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a cost-effective route for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the process necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke and reduced propylene selectivity. Strategies like Cu addition mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial route for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process. Coke formation on Pt catalysts, however, significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, adjusting support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations have provided insights into PDH catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency and stability. These ensembles promote propane dehydrogenation, improve selectivity by inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke side reactions, thus mitigating coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable catalysts, especially Pt-based, are vital for industry. PtPt ensembles promote over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn boosts propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. The Pt3 site in PtGa is more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, significantly improving stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalyst efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts for high activity, with Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. To mitigate this, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, promotes positively charged single Pt atoms, which are most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, as shown in studies on Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The PDH process uses PtSn catalysts at pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts maintain activity through temperature adjustments over a lifespan of 2-3 years. However, coke formation at high temperatures necessitates frequent regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles promoting more coke. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is removed from propane under critical reaction conditions like temperature and pressure. Common catalysts are Pt and Cr, but earth-abundant alternatives like iron are explored due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, hinders efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure and controlling coke formation are key. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity under high temperatures. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and composition, adding Sn for enhanced regeneration, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition, and employing core-shell catalysts for improved performance. Suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production is efficient due to its homolytic C-H bond cleavage in propane, outperforming Pt-based catalysts with controlled crystallite size for high activity and durability. Industrial applications include propene production for chemicals. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ, minimizing coke formation, and maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies involve using ZrO2 and optimal crystallite sizes to enhance catalyst performance and reduce costs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) post 6-hour operation at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering resistance can be improved by using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloys as catalysts. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency issue, by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, and Co-based catalysts show potential for commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an economically viable route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke deposition on catalysts, which causes deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, can enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency, as evidenced by quote 16.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability, are utilized in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, and controlling catalyst size and support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures impacting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting selective propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but can lead to over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This catalyst retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enable stable activity, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt-Sn catalysts addressing selectivity issues. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve propylene selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance surface-bonded propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, key in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, mitigating catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusively propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from naphtha to cheaper ethane feedstock, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, degrading catalyst performance over time, necessitating frequent regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, crucial for maintaining efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke formation. This significantly impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration that increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Particle size affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice (Pt, Cr, or earth-abundant alternatives) critical for efficiency. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, exacerbated by high temperatures, limits efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution, and employing promoters like CeO2 to enhance oxygen storage and mobility. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, with TiOx enhancing electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, outperforms Pt-based catalysts in activity and durability. Optimal ZrO2 crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and reduces coke formation, a PDH challenge causing catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using regenerative ZrO2 and controlling crystallite sizes. Industrial PDH applications, focusing on chemical industry propene production, benefit from ZrO2's cost-effectiveness and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, boosting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts effectively mitigate coke formation, achieving 90% propene selectivity and stability over 120 hours at 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding promoter elements like Sn enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature and requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, particularly Pt and Cr oxide, are essential, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial PDH. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, which have been extensively explored. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism, highlighting the complex network of reactions and intermediates leading to coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address high reaction temperatures and stability issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles enhance desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and maintaining Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising for increasing global propylene demand. Severe deactivation under high temperatures necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to maintain high temperatures. The Pt1 site is effective for selective and stable PDH, while the Pt3 site requires modification to disable it. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt while keeping single-atom Pt intact, showing high conversion and selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, while critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, often requiring Sn promoters. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, improving selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, for instance, achieve 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also enhance activity and reduce deep dehydrogenation by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a significant commercial technique since the 1980s for propylene production, employs Pt-based catalysts widely used in Oleflex processes. However, these catalysts rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields specific olefins, optimized for polymer purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with 2-3 year catalyst longevity, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, bridging the supply gap from conventional crackers. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane under critical reaction conditions like temperature and pressure. Common catalysts Pt and Cr, though effective, are expensive and hazardous, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. To mitigate coke, promoters like phosphate prevent coking, and regeneration techniques restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational Pt surface design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal utilization. Weakening propylene adsorption strength suppresses deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' structures and alloying enhances propene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice, benefits from ZrO2's C-H bond cleavage efficiency, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in industrial applications. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene output.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is pivotal for propene production, with PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, a significant issue affecting catalyst efficiency. Demonstrating 90% propene selectivity at high temperatures, these SAAs maintain stability for over 120 hours. Efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, especially with Sn promoters, extend lifetime by mitigating coking. Novel Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation are strategies to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. High temperatures required for high propene yields lead to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are key, with Pt-based catalysts favored in industry for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Modifying support properties also helps control coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhance thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining Pt and Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb to block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a major challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and boost propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene's potential to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms is promising, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15. Alkali metals provide electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation but not remove existing coke, mitigating its deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade purity, and its global installations are expanding. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is economically and environmentally driven. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under specific conditions, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalyst regeneration is critical due to coke formation, which degrades performance over time, necessitating strategies for mitigation and efficiency improvement.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, influenced by temperature, pressure, and catalyst choice. Pt and Cr are common but costly and toxic catalysts, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; strategies exist to mitigate coking and regenerate catalysts, including phosphate use and thermal treatment under an oxidizing atmosphere.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational Pt surface structure design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Catalyst modifications, such as size and shape control, alloying, and support selection, enhance propene selectivity. TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2 catalysts with unsaturated Zr sites, offering industrial relevance over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, boosting propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include employing ZrO2 for higher durability and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helping.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), employing PtM alloys such as PtSn and PtCu, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively address the challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, enhancing propene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures for propane conversion. High temperatures promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, and is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH like Oleflex, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance efficiency and stability at high temperatures by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These ensembles promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensures thermal stability and prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, crucial for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propylene production, requires high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Isolating Pt atoms enhances selectivity and stability. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heated by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, necessitate Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts mitigate coke formation, improving propene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen's effect being significant.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, unlike mixed-product alternatives. The global increase in PDH installations reflects its growing importance, driven by favorable market conditions. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's adaptation to more economical feedstock. Seeking efficient conversion technologies, the petrochemical industry addresses high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. PtSn-based catalysts operate under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst efficiency. Research targets improving catalysts for enhanced DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity than larger particles (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can paradoxically improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, where hydrogen is removed from propane under critical reaction conditions like temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to stabilize the catalyst surface and prevent coking, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, is due to CH3CC* and C* formation. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. These approaches aim to weaken propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized with ZrO2, which offers higher activity and durability than Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, which is crucial for industrial applications in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation can transform the process to exothermic and break equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Optimal conditions include a temperature around 520°C and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency; however, Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by improving propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges at high temperatures (550-700°C) due to side reactions and coke deposition, degrading catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored for selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration combats coke via chlorine-air combustion. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include hydrogen co-feeding, Pt alloying with Sn or other metals, and support modifications. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, serves as a key active site, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane. These geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] enhance propene selectivity and stability by inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. Additionally, [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are vital for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH hinge on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. Achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation is possible with PtGaPb, showcasing improved stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, while increasing conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum, with continuous regeneration technology since the 1970s, maintain stable activity for years, enabling large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity and coke formation, which leads to deactivation. Adding Sn boosts propylene selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, minimizing Pt usage. Doped graphene strategies predict enhanced catalytic properties, including reduced deep dehydrogenation, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a key technique since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in commercial Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's rate is influenced by operating conditions, highlighting the need for controlled environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The endothermic reaction requires continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days address coke formation, a byproduct of high temperatures, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges of cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research targets developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to more coke. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) pivotal for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is exacerbated by smaller Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures intensify coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution, enhancing CeO2's oxygen storage and mobility to reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx enhances catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized by ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, with in situ regeneration. ZrO2 minimizes coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity, unlike Pt-based catalysts where coke buildup reduces efficiency. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor co-feeding, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is complexly related to coke amount and nature. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to pressure drop. Improving coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures for conversion but risking side reactions and coke formation, which affect Pt-based catalysts' performance. Promoting Pt with Sn enhances longevity by reducing coking, a critical challenge. Strategies focus on mitigating coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration for more efficient propene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. The process is economically competitive due to the low cost of propane and the increasing demand for propene. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts are favored for their activity and stability but face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts also exhibit good performance but are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, operating at temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in commercial processes like Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major challenge, degrading performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture, addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures can reduce propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance thermal stability and selectivity by promoting C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure facilitates surface-bound propylene desorption and prevents Pt and Zn atom segregation, boosting catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, with single-atom Pt, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke formation, enhancing stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity over years, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates catalyst deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn for improved propylene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for better propylene selectivity and stability, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles to enhance propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates and deactivating effects, but cannot remove formed coke. Studies suggest only a portion of coke causes deactivation, with temperature playing a key role.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene, which makes current market conditions advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and produce polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide is driven by the shift to shale-based ethane in the US and the industry's pursuit of more efficient technologies. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss in activity due to coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but Pt faces a significant challenge: coke formation, which reduces activity and selectivity. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity, addressing the efficiency impact of coke on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacts efficiency. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution, enhancing CeO2's oxygen storage and mobility to reduce coke, employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and utilizing coreshell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx further enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst for propene production excels in efficiency and durability, surpassing Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites enable homolytic C-H bond cleavage in propane, with activity modulated by crystallite size adjustment. Industrial PDH operates at high temperatures for dehydrogenation, yielding propene for the chemical industry. Notably, ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical issue on Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and reducing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research hotspot due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects and isn't always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, marking significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu is pivotal for propene production. Optimal conditions include 520°C and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts significantly affect selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C, mitigating coke formation. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures (550-700°C) for high conversion rates, but this can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts enhances their lifetime by mitigating coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. High reaction temperatures for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is a key industrial method for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, which blocks access to active sites and undermines catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles, are highly efficient for PDH, a propene production method. The electron-rich Pt1 site promotes C-H cleavage, enhancing propene selectivity and stability by inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions. [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate propene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining SAC stability through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains intact, shows outstanding performance. PtGaPb/SiO2 exhibits 30% conversion with 99.6% selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, such as Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, significantly improve propylene selectivity to 90% by enhancing desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them less prone to deep dehydrogenation and more active.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a key propene production method, significantly contributing to global supply. Pt-based catalysts, utilized in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to reduce deactivation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to suppress propylene adsorption and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation but not remove existing coke, mitigating its deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. It offers exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane, seeking efficient technologies to address high-energy demands and low olefin selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, requiring continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days combat coke formation, a challenge impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for on-purpose propylene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance the DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, though their cost and toxicity prompt the exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration help mitigate coke formation, maintaining activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation. Small Pt clusters accelerate deactivation due to higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 as a durable catalyst offering high selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size enhances catalytic performance and minimizes coke formation, maximizing propene yield. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in industrial applications like the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher durability and lower coke formation, and oxidative regeneration to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, critical for sustaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production under conditions of around 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) excel by enhancing propene desorption, achieving high selectivity (90%) and stability, and mitigating coke formation, which otherwise reduces selectivity and activity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures for conversion but risking coke formation that affects Pt-based catalyst efficiency. Pt-Sn catalysts have shown improved lifetime by minimizing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH suggests potential for enhanced energy efficiency and commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, employing metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Controlling Pt catalyst size and modifying support properties also aid in reducing coke formation. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, act as active sites, enhancing selectivity and stability. They promote propane dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, being active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts mitigate coke by promoting propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene supports Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are pivotal but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15. Alkali metals facilitate electron transfer to Pt, minimizing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, specifically the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an advantage by exclusively producing a specific olefin, unlike mixed products from other methods, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global PDH industry is expanding with dozens of new installations under construction. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock in the US highlights the industry's move towards more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, being endothermic, requires heat content maintenance in the catalyst bed. A PtSn-based catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously for uninterrupted product flow, and the catalyst is regenerated every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    