Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is crucial for meeting supply demands, yet faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation, with larger Pt particles being more selective for dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene by dehydrogenating propane, primarily using Pt and Cr catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques, ensuring sustained catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, particularly on small Pt clusters. Rational design of the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using propane's C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size boosts propene selectivity by optimizing active site concentration. High-temperature PDH yields propene for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, but ZrO2 mitigates this through its interaction with propane/propene, facilitating regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor co-feeding, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content increases to 2.8wt% without it, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys is a key process for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), enhance propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at high temperatures. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, maintaining 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting coke deposition on catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, see extended lifetimes with Sn addition. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures aims to enhance efficiency and reduce coke formation, addressing the critical challenge in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures. This endothermic reaction leads to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures exceeding 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts playing a crucial role in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration combats coke formation through chlorine-air combustion. Pt catalysts are prized for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size, all aiming to enhance catalyst performance and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalysts enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting over-dehydrogenation and coke formation. The Pt1 site's unique properties in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate propane's C-H bond cleavage, preventing propylene's over-dehydrogenation and side reactions. This structural ordering ensures Pt and Zn do not segregate, crucial for catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are vital for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms and alloying with inactive metals like Sn can enhance selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa offers a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains active, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken the platinum-olefin interaction, improving resistance against fouling by heavy carbonaceous materials, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals, crucial for maintaining high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is critical for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being preferred due to their activity, especially when enhanced with Sn for selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene is also effective in tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 80s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Hydrogen reduces coke precursor formation, minimizing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen decreases both its rate and deactivating effect, as shown in studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Growing PDH installations globally reflect favorable market conditions. A PtSn-based catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, designed for continuous operation with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. High temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time, as observed in studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under optimal temperature and pressure conditions. Common catalysts Pt and Cr, though effective, are costly and toxic, prompting research into alternatives like iron-based materials. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions can regenerate catalysts, restoring their activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Coke forms from CH3CC* and C*, leading to catalyst deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and controls coke. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type, benefits from ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage in propane, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's activity, controlled by adjusting crystallite size, enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content with water vapor at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, leveraging ceria's redox properties and water vapor's effectiveness in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions like temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio are pivotal. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively reduce coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation, which degrades Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH at lower temperatures aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical process for converting propane to propene, a key petrochemical. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, which leads to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low propene selectivity. Adding Cu as a promoter suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This strategy addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, improving PDH process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a critical challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt catalyst size is also crucial, with single Pt atom catalysts showing promise. These approaches aim to prevent coke from covering catalysts and blocking active sites, maintaining efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst integrity through structural ordering, thus addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. The PtGaPb catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieves highly selective and stable PDH. Demonstrating 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, the single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. Achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation is possible with PtGaPb, showing improved stability and selectivity under harsh conditions. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, with the thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the size mismatch between Pb and Pt/Ga contributing to this effect. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, surpassing traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a significant challenge. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, addressing the critical issue of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 can reduce coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, while weakly acidic supports suppress propene adsorption and polymerization. Hydrogen decreases coke formation and catalyst deactivation by inhibiting coke precursors but cannot remove formed coke. Studies confirm coke formation's structure sensitivity and hydrogen's ability to mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, leveraging the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies exclusively produce olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts to more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. A PtSn-based catalyst operates under specific conditions, with its life span maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, while frequent catalyst regeneration is crucial. High temperatures, necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles promoting more coke. Analysis via TEOM/GC reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, have cost and toxicity issues, leading to research on alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene from propane, influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with its unsaturated Zr sites, offers enhanced propene selectivity by controlling crystallite size, making it a viable alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Industrial applications focus on propene production for the chemical sector. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and optimizing crystallite sizes to minimize buildup.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C; coke content rises to 2.8wt% without water vapor, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which enhance propene selectivity to 90% and ensure stability over extended periods. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively tackle coke formation, a major efficiency hurdle, by maintaining high propene formation rates and low deactivation, with catalyst regeneration achievable through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates deactivation, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption by lowering the reaction temperature.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like incorporating Cu can suppress coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, thus boosting PDH efficiency. [4] [7] [9] [10] [11] [16]", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and oxide (CrOx) catalysts, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly hinders catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size, as detailed in quotes 11 and 12. These measures aim to reduce coke and enhance catalyst efficiency, addressing the critical challenge in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs and [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles promote propane dehydrogenation, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation, crucial for catalyst regeneration. They facilitate propylene desorption and prohibit coke side reactions and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propene production, requires high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials, are crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but this is addressed by using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, demonstrating 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss, showcasing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for selectivity, face a critical challenge: coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts optimize noble metal usage, improving propylene desorption and preventing over-dehydrogenation, thus enhancing selectivity and stability. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation propensity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for 2-3 years with activity maintained by adjusting temperatures. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, degrading catalyst performance over time and necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for better DHP reaction rates and minimized side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Interestingly, coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking reactions. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time, indicating the complex interplay between catalyst properties and reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, with cost-effective alternatives like iron being explored. Coke formation on Pt catalysts hinders activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation involve using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propylene selectivity. Under high temperatures, strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. The critical challenge is to weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production offers high efficiency due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in propane. ZrO2's activity can be tuned by adjusting its crystallite size, making it a preferred alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and regeneration ability make it a cost-effective choice in the CATOFIN process, maximizing propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. Co-feeding water vapor to PtSn catalysts maintains low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C, whereas its absence increases coke content to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, as demonstrated by the spent catalyst readily reverting to this state after such treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for PDH. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, employs PtM alloy catalysts under optimized conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly boost propene selectivity and stability, effectively tackling the issue of coke formation, a major efficiency hurdle. These SAAs exhibit 90% propene selectivity and outstanding stability for over 120 hours, with minimal deactivation. Catalyst regeneration through successive oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting efficiency. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an economical route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas. Yet, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts, as seen in PtCu/Al2O3, inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing the formation of lighter hydrocarbons, thus improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalyst performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Catalyst regeneration in processes like Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs act as active sites, enhancing propane dehydrogenation and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles prevent coke formation by promoting propylene desorption and maintaining structural ordering, critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential. PtPt ensembles in Pt-based catalysts are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn boosts propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site promotes undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Reactions, endothermic, are heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regeneration. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt-based catalysts is crucial for propene production, with Sn addition improving selectivity. The primary challenge is coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene strategies are predicted to enhance activity and reduce deep dehydrogenation by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions. Alkali metals help reduce coking by providing excess mobile electrons to the Pt catalyst, as shown by Praserthdam et al. [5].", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH installations are expanding globally. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with continuous operation and a 5-10 day catalyst regeneration cycle. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that increase DHP rates while minimizing side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke enhances selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time, as suggested by research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under optimal temperature and pressure conditions. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, with research exploring alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like employing phosphate to suppress coking and regeneration techniques enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. However, catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production benefits from ZrO2's high activity and durability as a catalyst. Its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate C-H bond cleavage, with optimal crystallite sizes that minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. In contrast, Pt-based catalysts suffer from reduced efficiency due to coke formation. ZrO2 mitigates this issue by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to address coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to remove deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by Pt/Cu single atom alloys, is pivotal for propene production, achieving high selectivity and stability. These alloys mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, and enable catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, faces challenges at high temperatures, including side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Sn promoters in Pt catalysts mitigate coking, extending their lifetime. Co-based catalysts show potential for future use. Microwave irradiation is explored to enhance PDH efficiency at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. This addresses the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes, ensuring high propylene yields and economic competitiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process facing coke formation challenges. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size, as computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability at high temperatures. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, facilitating propane's initial C-H cleavage, promoting propylene desorption, and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving catalyst stability and preventing Pt/Zn segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Industry demands stable catalysts for PDH that can operate at high temperatures without deactivation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, demonstrating high conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop, showing improved stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercially used since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts improve selectivity and stability by preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reduces deep dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst activity and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a significant commercial technique since the 1980s, plays a crucial role in global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. To mitigate this, modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing coke formation rate is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhance propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a lucrative propene production method, with profitability tied to propane and propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and are favored over steam cracking due to the high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The industry is shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days mitigate coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures, to preserve catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or further crack into C1, C2, or surface carbon. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being crucial. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but costly, leading to research on safer, earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency. Strategies to mitigate this include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* is a significant efficiency issue. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of the Pt surface structure for improved selectivity, adding Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke deposition, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration from active sites to the carrier. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. Weakening propylene adsorption strength and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical for high selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, ZrO2 excels as a catalyst due to its durability and high activity, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites cleave C-H bonds, maximizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, offering a strategy for higher activity and durability. Oxidative regeneration is another approach to remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) under atmospheric pressure produces propene, utilizing PtM alloy catalysts. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively reduce coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts impairs efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore activity, ensuring high selectivity and prolonged stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures, leading to deactivation. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts with Sn improves their longevity. Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH at lower temperatures show promise for future commercial use and energy efficiency, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing Pt-based catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial due to their high activity and stability. Challenges include significant catalyst deactivation from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoters like Cu, which suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This improves the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production (ΔH298 = 124.3 kJ/mol, reaction temp > 500°C), employs metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in UOP's Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance, undermining catalytic stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, using transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy with a 1:1 molar ratio of Pt:M is pivotal, featuring [PtZn4] ensembles that serve as stable active sites. These promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propene. This structure prevents coke side reactions, improving selectivity and stability. Additionally, [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propene, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is essential for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, are crucial for industry. Severe deactivation due to coke necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Pb modification significantly enhances stability and selectivity, achieving continuous, highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Pt-based noble metal catalysts enable stable activity and economic operation of large dehydrogenation units. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn for improved propylene selectivity, face the challenge of coke formation leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance selectivity and stability, with the latter achieving high propylene selectivity by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosts activity and reduces deep dehydrogenation, effectively addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, facing rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which facilitate electron transfer to Pt, decreasing coking, and using weakly acidic supports like SBA-15 to suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation but not removing existing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a preferred method for propene production, benefiting from favorable market conditions and its ability to yield high-purity olefins. The global expansion of PDH installations is driven by the availability of cheaper shale-based ethane and the industry's pursuit of efficient technologies. The endothermic PDH reaction, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, maintains activity over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to mitigate the detrimental effects of coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. Strategies to address coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges like cracking and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity to coke. This impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration, which complicates the process and increases costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Particle size affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, with ongoing research on earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, reducing activity and efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking involve using phosphate and developing catalysts with enhanced coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to maximize propene selectivity. ZrO2 shows high activity and selectivity, preferred over Pt-based catalysts due to lower coke formation rates and higher durability. Oxidative regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtSn and PtCu catalysts affect selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys enhancing propylene desorption for high selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, mitigating this issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, prone to side reactions and coke deposition on catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, susceptible to coking, can be enhanced with promoters to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4, 5, 6). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7, 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10, 11). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst performance (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process. Coke formation, a major issue, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is optimized using atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs with [PtZn4] ensembles, which enhance propane's C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles improve selectivity and stability, prevent coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, significantly boosting catalyst performance and efficiency in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially isolated Pt atoms, can inhibit side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with its stable (111) surface, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked while single-atom Pt remains active, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation is achieved. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's larger atomic radius. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Heat for endothermic reactions is sourced from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt-based catalysts with Sn for enhanced selectivity, is crucial for propene production. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major issue, causing deactivation. To mitigate coke, strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting less deep dehydrogenation and higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 80s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation rate and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique exclusively yields high-purity olefins, with dozens of new installations planned globally. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year catalyst life maintained by temperature adjustments to counteract activity loss. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, while frequent regeneration (every 5-10 days) is necessary to combat coke formation at high temperatures, preserving catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting product selectivity and catalyst performance. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Catalyst development aims to balance CH and CC bond activation for optimal C3H6 selectivity, as evidenced by the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP, where the former exhibits almost two orders of magnitude higher coke content after 220 min on stream.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, critical for hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are key, with Pt and Cr being common but costly or hazardous. Iron-based catalysts emerge as a promising, less expensive, and non-toxic alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency; using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for stability, promoting CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants extends catalyst use time. Partially reduced TiOx enhances Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. High temperatures exacerbate propylene adsorption, leading to side reactions that form coke and deactivate the catalyst, with selectivity around 60-80%. The critical challenge is to weaken propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds, enhancing propene output. ZrO2, preferred in industry for its durability and in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, allowing cost-effective regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting the effectiveness of ceria's redox properties and water vapor in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium (Quote 1). If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation (Quote 2). PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts (Quote 4). Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects and is not always feasible. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state, with the loss of activity not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, particularly PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively mitigate coke formation, a significant efficiency-reducing challenge, by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. These SAAs achieve 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability under high-temperature conditions, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates optimally at high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoter elements like Sn, which extends catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research also explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a promising propene production method, converts propane into propene, utilizing abundant natural gas. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, promoting thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges due to significant deactivation from coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of Cu to Pt-based catalysts, which inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing the formation of lighter hydrocarbons, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process for large-scale propene production at temperatures above 500°C, employs Pt-based catalysts for their selectivity and durability, as seen in the Oleflex process. However, coke formation on these catalysts is a critical challenge, degrading performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. These approaches aim to curb coke formation, which blocks access to active sites on metal catalysts, and improve catalyst regeneration, as demonstrated in the Oleflex process where cokes are combusted with a chlorine-air mixture for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] catalysts boost selectivity and stability by promoting initial dehydrogenation and inhibiting further reactions that lead to coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates propene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical industrial challenge. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for global demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, modified with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, surpassing traditional techniques. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for selectivity, face a significant hurdle in coke formation, leading to deactivation. To tackle this, atomically dispersed Pt catalysts are employed for enhanced selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and improve propylene desorption, while Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles ensure high selectivity. Doped graphene, particularly with positively charged single Pt atoms, optimizes electronic structure, boosting activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial process since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation but cannot remove existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields high-purity olefins, making it an on-purpose technique. Global PDH expansion is underway, with a shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to mitigate coke formation, a challenge that necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to reduce coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher rates of coking. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, promoting C3H6 production. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though research explores cost-effective, non-toxic alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include employing phosphate to suppress coking and developing catalysts with enhanced coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt catalysts follow the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking and eventual catalyst failure. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of the Pt surface structure to improve selectivity and control coke formation. Adding Sn helps Pt redistribute during regeneration, enhancing catalyst stability. Promoting CeO2 increases oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration from active sites to the carrier. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures increases propene selectivity. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2's efficiency in cleaving these bonds, boosting propene selectivity and offering an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes PDH efficiency; ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and ensuring higher activity and durability, crucial for cost-effective propene production processes like CATOFIN.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, and the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, particularly PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) exhibit enhanced propene selectivity and stability, effectively addressing the significant challenge of coke formation, which impairs catalyst efficiency. Optimal reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are essential. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate high propene selectivity and stability, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity, tackling the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures. Enhancing Pt catalysts with Sn extends their lifetime, mitigating deactivation by coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production from propane, utilizing abundant natural gas reserves (Quote 4). However, the endothermic nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation, a significant challenge (Quotes 7, 8). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke (Quote 10). Strategies like the addition of Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16), addressing the critical issue of coke on Pt catalysts (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, typically operating above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, known for their selectivity and durability, are crucial in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation on these catalysts significantly hinders performance and stability, presenting a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. The complex network of reactions leading to coke formation is better understood through computational simulations, providing insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy SACs are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability by promoting initial propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. Electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] prevent coke formation, maintaining catalyst stability and facilitating propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, a technique to meet global propylene demand, faces challenges due to severe catalyst deactivation at high temperatures, primarily from coke formation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are pivotal, with PtGa intermetallic compounds offering thermal stability and high selectivity by isolating Pt1 sites, which effectively inhibits coke formation. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous propylene production at high temperatures. This innovation stabilizes single-atom-like Pt, leveraging PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius to inhibit diffusion. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, crucial for catalyst stability, achieving continuous propylene production without deactivation at temperatures exceeding 580°C.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of propylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, leveraging Pt catalysts for high activity. However, Pt catalysts require Sn for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Single-atom catalysts, particularly Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, improve propene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, is predicted to boost activity and reduce deep dehydrogenation, addressing coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene yield, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports with weak acidity, reduces coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation but not removing formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the search for more economical feedstocks. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while ideal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation (Quote 2, 3). Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life (Quote 5). Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates (Quote 7). Coke formation can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions (Quote 14). The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking (Quote 11). Small Pt particles favor cracking reactions, while larger particles are more selective for dehydrogenation reactions, affecting C3H6 selectivity (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under critical conditions like temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using promoters like phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques, ensuring sustained catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of the Pt surface structure, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, promotion of CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and use of dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying the geometrical and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts increases propylene selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms enhance catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst optimizes propene selectivity through its coordinatively unsaturated sites, making it an efficient and industrially viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. High temperatures promote dehydrogenation, while ZrO2's ability to mitigate coke formation ensures catalyst durability. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration to remove coke, restoring activity and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, mitigating coke formation and enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Strategies to mitigate sintering include adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, employing PtM alloys, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which effectively reduce coke formation. These SAAs enhance propene selectivity and stability, achieving 90% selectivity and sustaining activity through regeneration by oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process converting propane to propene, faces a critical challenge of coke formation at high temperatures. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, benefit from promoter elements like Sn, which enhance their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, tackling the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, can enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for producing propene, involving an endothermic reaction at high temperatures. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in UOP's Oleflex process due to their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major challenge, degrading performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts boost efficiency and selectivity by facilitating propane's C-H cleavage, preventing excessive dehydrogenation and coke formation. The Pt1 site in [PtZn4] catalysts inhibits coke side reactions and promotes propylene desorption, ensuring sustained catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 h, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale light olefin production, especially propylene and isobutylene, under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts require frequent regeneration due to coke formation. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles or doped graphene mitigate coke formation, optimizing catalytic properties like improved surface-bonded propylene desorption, ensuring efficient PDH processes and minimizing noble metal usage.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, utilizing Pt-based catalysts as in Oleflex processes. These catalysts face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect, as shown in studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene. It yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer quality. The industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane from oil-based naphtha, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, requiring catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss of activity. High temperatures, essential for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, facing challenges in hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in greater coke content. Coke acts as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio, with larger Pt particles being more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. This highlights the critical role of catalyst design in managing coke formation and enhancing propene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with temperature and pressure being pivotal. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting interest in iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly hinders efficiency, a challenge addressed by phosphate use and catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke and catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Rational Pt surface design and strategies like Sn addition, CeO2 promotion, and dopants improve selectivity, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration, enhancing catalyst stability. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency, while TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing ZrO2 as a superior catalyst, efficiently produces propene due to its high activity, selectivity, and durability. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances active site concentration, boosting propene output. ZrO2's in-situ regeneration capability mitigates the efficiency-reducing issue of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical PDH challenge. This enhances industrial applications in chemicals, plastics, and detergents production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, requires high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor utilization, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free, highlighting an effective regeneration strategy.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key propene production method, employs PtM alloy catalysts, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which boost propene selectivity to 90% and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures, effectively tackling coke formation. Coke buildup, a major efficiency hurdle, reduces selectivity and activity; however, regeneration via oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, needing high temperatures for efficiency, which can cause coke on Pt-based catalysts, impacting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts minimizes deactivation, extending their lifespan. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to boost efficiency and cut energy use, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. High reaction temperatures, necessary for PDH, risk thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Adding Cu promoters can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency. [Quote 4] highlights PDH's promise, [Quote 7] notes the endothermic nature and high temperature requirement, [Quote 9] emphasizes the need for high-performance catalysts, [Quote 10] discusses Pt-based catalysts' advantages, [Quote 11] points out their limitations, and [Quote 16] suggests strategies to mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Catalysts are categorized into metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) types, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in PDH, notably in UOP's Oleflex process where regeneration occurs via coke combustion with chlorine-air. However, coke formation significantly affects Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy enhances selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. The Pt1 site facilitates propylene desorption, preventing coke formation. Structural ordering in IMAs ensures stability by preventing Pt and Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining high conversion and selectivity for propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt/Sn catalysts excelling in activity and selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge causing deactivation. To combat this, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can further optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing their activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, pivotal in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    