Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing propylene supply gaps left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges with cracking and coke formation on catalysts, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). This affects catalyst lifetime and increases operational costs due to the need for frequent regeneration. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, focusing on Pt particle size to control coke formation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Strategies involve optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to balance CH and CC bond activation, crucial for selectivity to C3H6.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, with selectivity around 60-80% and poor stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This catalyst offers industrial relevance and durability, outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can deactivate them, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene yield. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for chemicals, plastics, and detergents. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with its ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits, makes it a cost-effective choice in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, with catalyst types impacting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving an endothermic reaction constrained by thermodynamic equilibrium. High temperatures are crucial for propane conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based ones, and exploring microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, aim to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The addition of promoters is a key strategy to improve catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature and requirement for temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are developed to address these issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, where the isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site promotes the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. This structure also improves stability by prohibiting coke formation and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, thus mitigating coke side reactions and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propylene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains its structure and small particle sizes, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts for their superior activity. Sn addition enhances propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, such as enhanced desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibition of further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene can significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability, with first-principles calculations predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations globally, the shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane highlights industry trends. Seeking economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for consistent activity. A PtSn catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days, crucial for managing coke formation, a key challenge impacting efficiency. Strategies include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes to mitigate coke and enhance catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production with challenges like cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that minimize cracking and prolong catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Particle size affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant and benign alternatives, like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Alloying Pt, selecting supports, and using coreshell catalysts improve selectivity and stability. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' structure and electronic properties enhances propene selectivity. Coreshell catalysts offer lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with higher activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. PDH, conducted at high temperatures (550-625°C), is crucial for chemical industry applications, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can manage coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) for propane conversion. High temperatures, however, promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in the Oleflex commercial process. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs enhance selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure improves propene desorption and stability by preventing coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Under high-temperature conditions, severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying active metals with inactive ones enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The stable surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites, with the Ga3 moiety supporting the isolated Pt1 atom. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, such as enhanced desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibition of further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene strategies can further enhance selectivity and stability, with first-principles calculations predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to reduce coking. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by energy demands, selectivity issues, and oil prices. The endothermic reaction's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Catalyst regeneration without losing activity, selectivity, and stability is crucial but increases process complexity and costs. Using TEOM/GC systems can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking from a single experiment. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigating its impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption leads to byproduct formation, necessitating strategies to weaken adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts through size control, alloying, and support selection improves selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst due to its coordinatively unsaturated sites, which cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. ZrO2's activity can be tuned by adjusting its crystallite size, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. PDH operates at high temperatures, around 550-625 degrees Celsius, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice impacting efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which can lead to deactivation. Strategies include using ZrO2 for in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 offering higher activity, durability, and cost savings through carbon deposit removal in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs, impact selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability at 520°C for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are necessary for high conversion rates but can lead to side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal. Pt-based catalysts, utilized in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, yet coke formation, exacerbated by high temperatures, significantly hampers performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high reaction temperatures challenge propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs address this, offering enhanced thermal stability and isolated active sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high PDH temperatures. Incorporating single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa supports isolated Pt1 atoms. However, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. Continuous and highly selective propene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. PtGaPb maintains its structure and elemental distribution, demonstrating high thermal stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn as a promoter to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to reduce coking. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, decreasing coking, while supports with weak acidity weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, unlike mixed-product methods, and can produce polymer-quality olefins. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical industry faces challenges due to high-energy demands and low selectivity of traditional processes. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, and the PtSn catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production uses Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation, is a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of promoters like Sn and CeO2, and using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, selecting supports, and using dopants improve selectivity and stability. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Tailoring Pt catalysts and supports is essential for efficient PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. ZrO2's crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts, mitigating coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH. Coke reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 allows in situ regeneration by removing carbon deposits, improving durability and reducing costs. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts used commercially. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation, can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). PtSn/CeO2 catalysts show high selectivity and can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types determine selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures are required for high conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts shows promise for future commercialization, offering improved catalytic properties. These strategies address the critical challenge of coke formation, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity are essential. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs are pivotal, offering enhanced thermal stability and isolated Pt1 sites that promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production requiring high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are evidenced by retained small particle sizes and intermetallic structure. The stability test at 650 °C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, attributed to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius, which inhibits diffusion into PtGa. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are critical for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt, despite its high activity, is improved with Sn for better propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts to enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene, prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles show 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, the petrochemical sector faces challenges like high-energy demands and low selectivity. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The system operates continuously, regenerating catalysts every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. Challenges include cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Coke formation significantly impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration, which increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Particle size affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx improves selectivity and extends catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a process for propene production, involves C-H bond activation in propane, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. High temperatures (550-625°C) promote dehydrogenation, while ZrO2's high activity and selectivity towards propene production make it a preferred catalyst. Catalyst regeneration techniques, like oxidative regeneration, can remove coke deposits and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst shows excellent stability and anti-coke capability, with high propene selectivity (90%) under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours, and can be regenerated through oxidation-reduction cycles to restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for high conversion rates but also lead to coke formation, affecting catalyst efficiency. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be improved with Sn, which extends their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized. Pt-based catalysts, featured in UOP's Oleflex process, undergo regeneration through coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite their high selectivity and durability, Pt catalysts face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. PDH's complex reaction network at high temperatures leads to coke, covering catalysts and blocking active sites. Strategies to reduce coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals like Cu and Zn, adjusting support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, the development of Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs addresses high reaction temperatures and catalyst stability issues. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and enhancing propylene desorption. The ordered structure also prevents Pt and Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at 600°C for 50 hours. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, to reduce coking. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favorable method for propene production, driven by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation offers an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and regenerating every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx interaction with Pt reduces propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, which can be controlled by adjusting crystallite size. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective regeneration in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAA catalysts mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, influenced by high temperatures (550-700°C) that can lead to coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The process is economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, it requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts prominent in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for selectivity and durability, but coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) enhances selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] ensembles also prevents Pt and Zn segregation, further enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is to use single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The Pt1 sites' high propylene selectivity minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are crucial for economic conversions, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn, are pivotal but face deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom catalysts, Pt dispersed on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, thus improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, can lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role is twofold: it suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene instead of a mix of products, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity. The growing number of PDH installations worldwide reflects the industry's shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The endothermic reaction's duration depends on the catalyst bed's heat content. The system operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, optimal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply from conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges like cracking of hydrocarbons and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Frequent regeneration of deactivated catalysts increases operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Particle size impacts activity and selectivity, with smaller particles (3 nm) being more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles accumulating more coke. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on catalyst performance. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in selectivity on large Pt particles might result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant, benign alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, with strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing a rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges, as strong adsorption leads to coke formation, reducing selectivity. High-temperature conditions exacerbate this, with propylene selectivity around 60-80% and poor catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst use by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst types. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, with higher activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications focus on propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 catalysts contributing to cost minimization through regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Coke formation is categorized into quick deactivation and steady state, with activity loss not simply correlating to coke amount. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in a strongly endothermic reaction that requires high temperatures of 550-700°C. High temperatures can lead to side reactions and coke deposition, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research is also exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. Its economic viability is bolstered by abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the key challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (CrOx) catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts, like those in UOP's Oleflex process, favored for their selectivity and durability. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key propene production method, but high temperatures can reduce propene selectivity and catalyst stability. To address this, atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) SACs have been developed. These SACs disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. The ordered structure also prevents segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, further enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propene that requires high temperatures for sufficient yields, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, keeping Pt1 sites active for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius preventing diffusion into PtGa. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition enhances propylene selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, improve selectivity, and stability, inhibiting side reactions. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry is shifting to shale-based ethane for steam cracking. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single catalysis experiment using a TEOM/GC system. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical, with Pt and Cr being traditional but costly or hazardous options. Recent research highlights promising iron-based catalysts as alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and lowering selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate this, causing poor catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, and using dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, modifies catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, offers high activity and durability, making it a superior alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes of ZrO2 minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 enhancing efficiency and reducing costs through its resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, typically using PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs offer high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C, with effective regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures, necessary for high conversion, also promote side reactions and coke formation, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn can mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to high reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) catalysts, specifically PtZn IMAs, address these issues by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] ensembles also prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propylene demand. Under high temperatures, severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and inhibits further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are necessary for economic conversions, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt catalysts favored for their activity. However, Pt's selectivity is improved by adding Sn as a promoter. The main challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve desorption of surface-bonded propylene, and doped graphene to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, like Li, Na, and K, to reduce coking by supplying mobile electrons. Supports with weak acidity, e.g., SBA-15, also decrease coke by weakening propylene adsorption. Coke formation's rate is highly influenced by operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for producing propene, favored by the current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins instead of a mixture of products, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations, driven by the abundance of cheap natural gas liquids like ethane, is shifting the petrochemical industry towards more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is endothermic, requiring continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst, active for 2-3 years, maintains dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, necessitating strategies for mitigation and improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing propylene supply gaps left by conventional crackers. However, it faces challenges such as cracking and excessive coke formation, which reduce product selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance PDH while minimizing side reactions, prolonging catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using TEOM/GC systems for comprehensive analysis and understanding the role of coke as a promoter for selectivity improvement by deactivating sites active for cracking. The selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with large Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, where reaction conditions like temperature and pressure are crucial. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to prevent deep dehydrogenation and coke formation. High temperatures exacerbate this, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80% and degrading catalyst stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering high propene selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; using ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to combat coke formation include employing ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, which prevents coke buildup from 0.5 to 2.8wt%. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, despite negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions and improving catalyst composition. Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst's initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures (550-700°C), but this promotes side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. It's economically competitive due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a highly effective industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are crucial, offering high thermal stability and improved selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these alloys act as key active sites, promoting the initial CH cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus significantly enhancing selectivity and stability. This mechanism effectively prevents coke side reactions, improving catalyst performance by prohibiting coke formation and maintaining structural integrity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields. However, this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a significant challenge for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propylene demand, but high temperatures cause severe deactivation. Selectivity and stability in PDH are crucial, balancing propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but can lead to coke formation. Isolating Pt atoms enhances selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. It achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production. This innovation stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity for years. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn addition to boost propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Researchers have explored modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, thereby reducing coking. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is acknowledged, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its deactivating effect can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is favored over traditional processes due to high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The PDH market is expanding with new installations. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures is a challenge, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduces selectivity and causes deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke amounts. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, with small Pt particles favoring CC bond activation (cracking) and large particles favoring CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their high cost and toxicity have led to research on earth-abundant and benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas, accelerating deactivation. Constructing Pt surface structures rationally improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies to increase selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves propane's C-H bond activation, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C, atmospheric pressure, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are critical. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu SAA mitigates coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions, with excellent regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in an endothermic reaction. High temperatures (550-700°C) are required for propane conversion, but they also promote side reactions and coke deposition, which can degrade Pt-based catalysts. Strategies like using Sn promoters can mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is ongoing, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote [4]). Economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation (Quote [5]), PDH faces challenges as an endothermic, equilibrium-limited reaction requiring high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote [7]). Developing catalysts with high selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote [9]). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face limitations due to coke formation and selectivity issues (Quotes [10] and [11]). Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are employed, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, featuring regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. PDH's complex reaction network at high temperatures leads to coke, which obstructs active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) emerges as a solution, offering isolated Pt1 sites and enhanced thermal stability compared to conventional single-atom alloys. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, further enhancing stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key method for producing propylene, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials, is crucial for industry. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has a stable surface with isolated Pt and Ga sites. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active improves selectivity and stability in PDH. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, PtGaPb/SiO2, demonstrates high conversion and selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains small particle sizes and intermetallic structure, showing high thermal stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial for conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, stabilizes noble metal catalysts, enabling large-scale, high-pressure production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, often improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Studies suggest modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable method for propene production, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method that addresses propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and reduced side reactions, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Comprehensive TEOM/GC systems offer insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene by removing hydrogen. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are critical for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity drive research into earth-abundant, benign alternatives, such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration techniques help mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production, often catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using C-H bond activation, is influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. PDH, conducted at high temperatures, is crucial for the chemical industry, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation treatment without chlorine, maintaining atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, where high temperatures (550-700°C) are crucial for propane conversion. However, this leads to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Promoter elements like Sn enhance Pt-based catalysts' lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising, aiming to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. The process is economically viable due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an effective industrial method for large-scale propene production, involving an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH can degrade catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using Cu and Zn, and controlling catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. The development of stable single-atom catalysts (SACs), particularly Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA), is pivotal. Surface [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles also improve desorption of surface-bound propylene, prohibiting coke formation and ensuring structural ordering of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst, with its stable (111) surface and isolated Pt1 sites, is promising. However, the Pt3 site is more active for further CH(C) scissions. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, achieves high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showing improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The thermodynamic stability of PtGa and the atomic size difference between Pb, Pt, and Ga make this combination suitable for high-temperature PDH. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, above 600°C, are necessary for economic conversion, but they also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity over years. PDH units produce light olefins, like propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the growing demand that traditional methods can't meet. Pt, despite its high activity, requires Sn addition to improve propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts to inhibit side reactions and improve selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, such as the desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prevention of further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles significantly boost propylene selectivity to 90%. Doped graphene strategies can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting that the single Pt atom with the most positive charge is the most active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coking. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is also crucial.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions and operates as an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding propene. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, with a global increase in PDH installations. The shift from naphtha to ethane as feedstock is driven by their availability and cost. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. Coke formation at high temperatures impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    