Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to boost DHP reaction rates while reducing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and selectivity. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes causing higher coke content. Catalysts with smaller particles are very active for cracking reactions, while larger particles are more selective for dehydrogenation reactions. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, removing hydrogen from propane under temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reducing efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is essential to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and enhances stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, a critical chemical process, utilizes catalysts like ZrO2 for efficient C-H bond activation in propane. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, offers enhanced propene selectivity and is preferred over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Optimal crystallite size control in ZrO2 boosts propene yield. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant efficiency challenge, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing yield. Optimal crystallite sizes are crucial for minimizing coke formation and maximizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, requires high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored via oxidation treatment without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production under high temperatures and specific propane-to-nitrogen ratios. Pt/Cu SAAs notably enhance propene selectivity and stability, achieving over 90% selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this issue, sustaining activity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial performance, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces a challenge with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts effectively mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical issue of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting propane into olefins with economic benefits due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low propene selectivity. Adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing stability and selectivity by inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing the formation of lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is vital for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, crucial for improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs significantly improve process efficiency and catalyst regeneration by inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene and preventing coke side reactions, enhancing thermal stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, shows high performance in PDH at high temperatures. Pb-modified PtGa achieves 30% conversion and 99.6% propene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance drop, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene, under superatmospheric pressures. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, enhanced with Sn, face the challenge of coke formation leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for noble metal economization and enhanced propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, is predicted to enhance activity while reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Alkali metals reduce coking rates by providing excess mobile electrons to Pt, while supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, weaken propylene adsorption and suppress polymerization. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields propene of polymer-quality purity, making it advantageous over processes with low selectivity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects its growing importance. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's lifespan of 2-3 years is maintained by adjusting temperatures to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, which are crucial for maintaining process efficiency and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, suggesting strategies for catalyst regeneration and coke mitigation are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane under specific conditions, utilizing Pt and Cr catalysts. Earth-abundant alternatives are also explored. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include phosphate use, enhancing catalyst performance, and regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor stability. Weakening propylene adsorption strength and suppressing deep dehydrogenation are critical. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx can extend catalyst use and facilitate coke migration from active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using propane's C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which outperform Pt-based alternatives with superior activity, durability, and efficient active site control, enhancing propene selectivity. A key challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which ZrO2 mitigates through in situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition to <1wt% on PtSn catalysts at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, impairing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, avoiding chlorine use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation, transforming the process to exothermic. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts used commercially. Supported Pt catalysts are a research focus due to the sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key reaction conditions include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtSn and PtCu catalysts influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling PDH at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This is evidenced by inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly hampers performance and stability. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, utilizing transition metals like Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches are crucial for enhancing catalyst regeneration and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, serve as active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This structure enhances propylene desorption, improving stability and preventing Pt and Zn segregation, effectively addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting propylene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are enhanced by balancing propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with Sn and using single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa improve selectivity and stability. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, retaining high conversion and selectivity at 600 °C for 50 h, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, stabilizing single-atom-like isolated Pt. Thermodynamic stability and size mismatch contribute to this stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt-based catalysts is crucial for propene production, with Sn addition improving selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts, such as atomically dispersed Pt on Cu nanoparticles, enhance selectivity and stability, achieving high propylene yields. Doped graphene modifies the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, potentially increasing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, hindering efficiency, but strategies like using single-atom catalysts can mitigate its impact and improve catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby reducing dehydrogenation cycles and enhancing propylene productivity. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, highlighting the structure-sensitive nature of coke formation and its dependence on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. Its on-purpose technique yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade purity. The global expansion of PDH installations is driven by the shift to cheaper shale-based ethane in the US, as dozens of new PDH plants are under construction worldwide. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705°C temperatures, with activity maintained through temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The system operates continuously, requiring catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of hydrogen-permeable membranes, preserving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to enhance catalysts, boosting DHP reaction rates and minimizing side reactions. Pt particle size impacts activity and selectivity, with smaller particles (3 nm) being more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation, significantly influenced by particle size, can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies focus on balancing CH and CC bond activations for improved C3H6 selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, face cost and toxicity issues, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like phosphate use and regeneration mitigate this, maintaining process effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking [1]. Catalyst deactivation is due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency [3]. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control [5]. Propylene adsorption strength and deep dehydrogenation are critical challenges. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability [22]. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution and stability [10]. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and enhancing stability [16]. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration [12]. Coreshell catalysts boost performance and precious metal efficiency [13]. Coreshell structures lower propylene adsorption and increase activation energies, enhancing selectivity [14]. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration [18].", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 catalysts is efficient for propene production, offering an alternative to Pt-based catalysts that suffer from coke formation. ZrO2-based catalysts can regenerate in situ, removing carbon deposits, showing higher activity and durability. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include employing ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, which can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) with PtM alloy catalysts is crucial for propene production, operating optimally at high temperatures and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) excel in propene selectivity and stability, effectively controlling coke formation, a major issue that can reduce catalyst activity. These SAAs achieve 90% propene selectivity with sustained stability over 120 hours. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates optimally at high temperatures, enhancing conversion but also promoting side reactions and coke formation, which degrades Pt-based catalysts. Adding promoter elements like Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a critical petrochemical, under high-temperature conditions that favor olefin production ([4], [5]). However, this endothermic process leads to coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation ([7], [9]). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke deposition and selectivity ([10], [11]). Strategies like Cu addition can mitigate coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity ([12], [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial propene production method, operates above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt favored in Oleflex for its selectivity and durability. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or using Cu, Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with electron-rich [PtZn4] ensembles, are pivotal. These sites boost propane dehydrogenation, enhance selectivity, and prevent coke formation, crucial for catalyst stability. The structural ordering of PtZn IMAs ensures active site stability, promoting propylene desorption and avoiding coke side reactions, thus maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial application. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to over-dehydrogenation, leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercially established since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycles. Higher temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metals, notably Pt, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale light olefin production at high selectivities under pressure. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken the platinum-olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those enhanced with Sn, improve propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability while reducing noble metal usage. Doped graphene optimizes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism needing further study. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Catalyst design can minimize coking while preserving activity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments for constant activity. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a solid oxygen carrier or hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation (Quote 2, 3). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger particles (21 nm), leading to faster coking rates and higher coke formation (Quote 7, 8). Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing notably higher coke content. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, leading to cracking reactions, whereas larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving propane's hydrogen removal. Efficient PDH requires optimal temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their limitations spur the search for better options. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Promoters like phosphate can suppress coking, and regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include rational Pt surface structure construction for enhanced selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage and mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and employing coreshell catalysts for enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency. Coreshell catalysts have lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity, suppress deactivation, and extend catalyst use.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using durable ZrO2 catalysts, optimizes active site concentration and enhances propene selectivity. High temperatures are typical, with reaction conditions impacting efficiency. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, unlike Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke, maximizing yield. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, significantly affect selectivity and activity. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, demonstrating high stability and anti-coke capability under high-temperature conditions, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures for high conversion rates, but this can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by mitigating coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for producing propene from propane, offering economic advantages due to low-cost feedstock. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as evidenced by Quote 16: 'Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.'", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures over 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, crucial for improving catalyst regeneration and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA catalysts are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability by isolating active Pt sites. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates initial C-H cleavage of propane, crucial for efficient PDH processes by preventing coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are essential. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for propene production, but severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on balancing propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution is the PtGa-Pb modification, which selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites available, achieving highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke, leading to outstanding stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius preventing diffusion into PtGa even at 600°C.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those enhanced with Sn, enhance propene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts leads to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene, making it profitable. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and PDH installations are expanding globally, with dozens under construction. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the U.S. is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained by temperature adjustments over its 2-3 year lifespan. The process is continuous, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the performance deterioration caused by coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time. Comprehensive information on activity, selectivity, and coking can be derived from a single experiment using TEOM/GC systems, highlighting the advantage of this method for understanding catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method that removes hydrogen from propane, with temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron. A significant challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency. Strategies like using phosphates to suppress coking and regeneration techniques are essential to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, affecting efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure and employing strategies like adding Sn, using CeO2, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration enhance selectivity and control coke formation. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst for propene production is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, offering an industrially viable alternative to Pt-based catalysts with improved durability and in situ regeneration. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; employing ZrO2 mitigates this issue, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. CeO2's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting sharply with a rise to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are critical. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts, such as PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Optimal conditions include atmospheric pressure and a balanced propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, even under high temperatures. Coke buildup on Pt-based catalysts decreases efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, addressing a critical challenge in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Microwave irradiation is a strategy explored to improve PDH efficiency at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins, favored by abundant natural gas resources. The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for large-scale propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Controlling Pt size is also crucial.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites enhance propene selectivity and stability. These ensembles promote propane's C-H cleavage, boosting propene output while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, ensuring high selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] sites prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to coke formation, causing catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in intermetallic compounds like PtGa offer thermal stability. Pb-modified PtGa, blocking Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, improves selectivity and stability. This catalyst demonstrates high conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, achieving long-term, continuous, and selective propene production at high temperatures. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include using modifiers to weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts facing selectivity issues and deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn to Pt boosts propylene selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts improve selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene strategies can also enhance activity and reduce deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts widely used in Oleflex processes. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation on these catalysts poses a significant challenge, with the mechanism still unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. These methods decrease the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propene output. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and influenced by operating conditions, with only a small part of the formed coke responsible for catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies produce specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan managed by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation and catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days ensure an uninterrupted product stream. High temperatures, while ideal for olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking, demonstrating its advantage in deriving information from a single catalysis experiment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Common catalysts like Pt and Cr face challenges due to cost and toxicity, leading to the exploration of earth-abundant alternatives such as iron-based materials. A significant hurdle is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes efficiency; strategies including phosphate use and catalyst regeneration are employed to mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate this include rational Pt surface structure design, weakening propylene adsorption, and modifying catalysts by controlling Pt NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Adding Sn enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production is efficient due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that enhance propene selectivity and mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, crucial for the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine, highlighting effective regeneration strategies.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Measures to slow down coking include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production. Key reaction conditions include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, addressing efficiency challenges posed by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote conversion and coke formation, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, can be enhanced with promoter elements like Sn to increase their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by lowering the reaction temperature, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures. This endothermic process, however, leads to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts (Quote [7]). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote [9]). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low selectivity (Quote [10]). Adding Cu can suppress coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, and improving process efficiency (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, face challenges from coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size, as revealed by computational DFT simulations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with high temperatures affecting selectivity and stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, boost thermal stability and act as active sites that enhance selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption. Structural ordering in these catalysts prevents coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, addressing the critical coke formation challenge on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry. Severe deactivation requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by the catalyst bed, direct fuel, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. These measures are crucial for maintaining high activity and selectivity in multi-stage adiabatic reactors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, surpassing traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those enhanced with Sn, are pivotal for propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant issue leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts improve selectivity and stability, reducing noble metal usage. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, ensures the most active and resistant state against deep dehydrogenation, specifically favoring the most positively charged single Pt atom, which is key to mitigating coke formation and enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. It's an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding high-purity olefins. The industry is shifting to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction worldwide. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing the shortfall left by conventional crackers. However, challenges include long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, acting as a promoter. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles could be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, a critical process, involves propane hydrogen removal. Choosing the right catalyst is essential, with iron-based alternatives emerging due to the high cost or toxicity of traditional Pt and Cr catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. To mitigate coke, strategies include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational design of Pt surface structure for improved selectivity and coke control, modifying catalyst structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting supports like TiOx to hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity (60-80%) and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity and mitigating coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. High-temperature PDH, around 550-625°C, is crucial for efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity, coupled with oxidative regeneration techniques, ensures sustained catalyst performance in propene production for the chemical industry, as demonstrated through the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, which significantly reduces coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, as they revert to an atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like Pt sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation that prevents Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as critical factors. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity to 90% and stability at high temperatures, as demonstrated under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, effectively addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, degrading their performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a critical petrochemical, under high-temperature conditions (Quote 4). However, this endothermic process leads to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, notably Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process. Coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly reduces performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles of Pt1M1 IMA catalysts enhance selectivity and stability by preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation. The electron-rich Pt1 site promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, improving selectivity and stability by prohibiting coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures causing coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation from coke and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on balancing propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but struggle with thermal stability at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, offers a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites, with Pt3 sites being more active for further reactions, necessitating modification. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt, which significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving high conversion and selectivity for 96 hours at 600°C without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke formation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face selectivity issues and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition improves propylene selectivity. To tackle coke formation, strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and improved catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a pivotal method for propene production, significantly impacting global supply. Pt-based catalysts, central to Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to suppress propylene dehydrogenation. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design to enhance propene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from current market conditions that favor the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality. The global expansion of PDH installations reflects the industry's shift towards more economical feedstock, particularly shale-based ethane in the US. Utilizing a PtSn catalyst, the process operates under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan maintained through temperature adjustments. The continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with a cycle every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Key challenges are hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes correlating with increased coke content. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, whereas larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation, revealing a complex interplay between catalyst performance and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with catalyst choice and reaction conditions being pivotal. While traditional Pt and Cr catalysts have drawbacks, iron-based alternatives show promise. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but phosphate can suppress coking, and regeneration strategies enhance process effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking, but catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of the Pt surface, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, promotion of CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and use of dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts and suitable supports improve performance and selectivity. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhances stability and curbs coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as a catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it industrially relevant. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. To further minimize coke formation, optimizing crystallite sizes for maximum propene selectivity and employing oxidative regeneration techniques are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor utilization, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is critical for propene production, influenced by temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtSn and PtCu catalysts affect selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency hurdle, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst, thus improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity in Oleflex. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA catalysts significantly enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus preventing coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] boosts propylene desorption and stability, structurally ordering Pt and Zn atoms to mitigate coke side reactions, thereby improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via coke formation. Stable Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are determined by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, showcasing outstanding stability. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Platinum-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology since the 1970s enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, necessary for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is critical for propene production but faces challenges with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using Pt with Sn to enhance propene selectivity, atomically dispersed Pt, and single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage. Notably, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles have shown 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial process since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen, however, cannot remove already formed coke. Understanding and controlling coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity challenges. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year catalyst lifespan maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation is favored, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing selectivity and causing deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke formation can paradoxically improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure critical for selectivity. Common catalysts Pt and Cr are costly and toxic, prompting research into alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity; strategies include phosphate use to suppress coking and catalyst regeneration to restore efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering an alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites cleave C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity through controlled crystallite size. Unlike Pt-based catalysts prone to coke formation, ZrO2 mitigates this issue by regenerating in situ, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes maximize propene selectivity while minimizing coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to tackle coke formation involve using ZrO2 for higher durability and applying oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content surges to 2.8wt% without it, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine, showcasing an effective regeneration strategy.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that enhance conversion but also foster side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Sn addition to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, prolonging catalyst life. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to boost efficiency, reduce energy use, and tackle coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. Its economic viability is bolstered by abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium's toxicity, as highlighted in quotes [4], [7], [9], [10], [11], and [16].", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, is endothermic and employs metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are used in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical as they promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity and stability, and inhibiting coke formation, thus improving the efficiency of the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry (Quote 2). Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for propene production (Quote 3), but severe deactivation due to coke deposition necessitates continuous regeneration (Quote 4). Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke (Quote 5). Isolating Pt atoms inhibits undesired side reactions (Quote 7). Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability (Quote 8). Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution (Quote 12). Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures without deactivation, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production (Quotes 17, 19, 20, 23).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, with regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle providing energy. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, often improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts enhance selectivity and stability, reducing side reactions. Single-atom catalysts, such as Pt on Cu nanoparticles, boost propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Doped graphene can fine-tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions, with hydrogen decreasing the rate of coke formation and the deactivating effect of the coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from favorable market conditions due to the price differential between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, with dozens of new installations globally. The process uses PtSn catalysts under specific conditions, maintaining activity for 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss in activity. High temperatures boost olefin yields but also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, addressing the critical challenge in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene from propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but iron-based alternatives are emerging. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH with Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, involving propyne as a crucial intermediate. Coke formation, especially on small Pt clusters, is a major challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst size, shape, and alloying, and selecting suitable supports. Adding Sn boosts catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution. CeO2 enhances oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke formation. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve efficiency and precious metal utilization. Selecting appropriate supports modifies performance, and TiOx increases electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates propane's C-H bonds, with ZrO2 emerging as an efficient catalyst due to its unsaturated Zr sites. Controlling ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and minimizes coke formation. Coke on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes maximize propene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through chlorine-free oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, where Pt nanoparticles migrate and coalesce, reducing surface area and activity. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. PtSn/CeO2 deactivated catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), is a critical method for propene production, effective under optimal conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance selectivity and activity, achieving high propylene yields. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant efficiency issue, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by improving propylene desorption, maintaining high selectivity. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Enhancing Pt catalysts with Sn extends their lifetime, while Co-based catalysts show potential efficiency and commercial viability. Microwave irradiation offers a promising method to reduce energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a cost-effective method for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. The process, however, is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium's toxicity. PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts, by inhibiting propylene adsorption, diminish coke formation and suppress the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability, are employed in commercial PDH processes. However, coke formation significantly degrades these catalysts' performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Controlling the Pt catalyst size and modifying support properties also help in reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, enhancing propene selectivity by promoting initial and second C-H cleavage of propane. Electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] prevent further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving stability. The ordered [PtZn4] structure avoids Pt and Zn segregation, crucial for catalyst regeneration and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while effectively inhibiting coke formation, enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being essential despite their susceptibility to deactivation due to coke formation. To combat this, atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts are employed, minimizing noble metal usage and improving propene selectivity up to 90%. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess mobile electrons, and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. It yields exclusively propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production faces challenges due to cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). This size effect significantly influences coke content, with smaller particles causing a two orders of magnitude increase in coke deposition. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are critical for maintaining activity, selectivity, and stability. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while reducing undesired side reactions, prolonging catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions, as evidenced by the significant effect of Pt particle size on coke formation and the observed decrease in selectivity to C3H6 on larger Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane to propene under optimized temperature and pressure, enhancing selectivity. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using promoters and employing regeneration techniques to sustain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a major challenge. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is crucial to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production in the chemical industry, is enhanced by ZrO2's efficient C-H bond cleavage, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Controlling ZrO2's crystallite size boosts propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency issue, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs. Strategies to reduce coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher durability and employing oxidative regeneration techniques, essential for propene production for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without chlorine, addressing deactivation concerns.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloy catalysts is pivotal for propene production. Catalyst types like PtSn, PtZn, and notably Pt/Cu SAAs, which mitigate coke formation and enhance propylene desorption for high selectivity and stability, are crucial. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate Pt-based catalysts, addressing coke formation, a critical challenge.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, necessitating high temperatures for high conversion rates, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn help mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows potential for enhancing efficiency and reducing energy consumption at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins, supported by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency. (Quotes 4, 7, 9, 10, 16)", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures over 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major issue, reducing performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs boost selectivity and stability at high temperatures. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as active sites, facilitating propane's C-H cleavage, enhancing propene production while curbing further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus preserving catalyst integrity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation, showing 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn addition for improved propene selectivity and face deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and improve propylene desorption, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene modifies the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions, as shown by studies on Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With global PDH installations on the rise, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures of 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is managed by temperature adjustments to maintain activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    