Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane under critical conditions like temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, face cost and toxicity issues, leading to research on alternatives such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking, including the use of phosphate and development of coking-resistant catalysts, are being explored to enhance performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies, enhancing propene selectivity. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance, and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 as a durable catalyst that enhances performance and minimizes coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2 crystallite size boosts catalytic activity and reduces coke, enabling in situ regeneration and maximizing propene yield. Industrial applications in the chemical industry, such as plastics and detergents, benefit from PDH. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques, ensuring sustained catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloy catalysts under 520°C and atmospheric pressure is vital for propene production. Pt/Cu SAAs notably enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating coke formation, a significant efficiency barrier. Coke diminishes selectivity and activity, but regeneration via oxidation-reduction cycles restores catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process that necessitates high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, extending their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH is promising for future commercialization and energy efficiency, tackling the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures, which is economically viable [Quote 4]. However, this endothermic process leads to coke formation and catalyst deactivation [Quote 7]. Pt-based catalysts exhibit high activity and stability but struggle with coke formation and propene selectivity [Quote 10]. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding Cu, which enhances catalyst stability and selectivity [Quote 16]. Despite Pt catalysts' lower coke formation rate compared to Cr-based catalysts [Quote 10], significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation constrains their performance [Quote 11]. Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial for PDH's efficiency [Quote 9].", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, key in UOP's Oleflex process, face deactivation from coke, combatted by chlorine-air combustion. Despite high selectivity, coke formation at high temperatures obstructs active sites. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size, as DFT simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, which act as active sites to promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This structure prevents coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability, and improves propylene desorption by prohibiting coke side reactions and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for adequate yields, which leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, while alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to high-temperature stability issues. Modifying PtGa with Pb, selectively blocking Pt3 while keeping Pt1 intact, achieves high selectivity and stability, demonstrating 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heated by the catalyst bed, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without shutdowns, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for improved propene selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene, by adjusting the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, is predicted to boost activity and resist deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, key in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing active catalysts with minimized coking. The rate of coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, highlighting the need for control.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, driven by high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The system operates continuously at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C for an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days, but high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, with hydrogen removal from propane. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly or hazardous; iron-based catalysts are emerging as a viable alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate can mitigate coking and maintain activity. Catalyst regeneration techniques, by removing coke, ensure sustained process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution during regeneration, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke deposition, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as a catalyst, which excels in cleaving C-H bonds due to unsaturated Zr sites, offering superior activity and durability over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Optimizing ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 facilitates in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and ensuring efficiency in industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration intervals are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Key factors include moderate temperatures and pressures. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts show high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions, mitigating coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which promote coke formation and degrade catalysts. Pt/Sn catalysts mitigate coking, enhancing longevity, while Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation research shows promise for lower-temperature PDH, improving energy efficiency and commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an economical route for propene production, converting propane into olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoters like Cu, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, with Pt catalysts favored for selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties, aiming to reduce coke formation that blocks active sites and impedes catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, with surface [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance stability and selectivity by isolating active sites and inhibiting coke formation, promoting efficient propane dehydrogenation while preventing further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous regeneration. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, addresses high-temperature stability issues. Pb-modified PtGa, blocking threefold Pt sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production in PDH without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production encounters a significant challenge with coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Enhancements, such as atomically dispersed Pt, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, have been shown to increase propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene, especially with positively charged single Pt atoms, optimizes electronic structure, enhancing activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation, thus addressing the critical issue of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a critical method for propene production, significantly contributing to global supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its control is essential for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts are regenerated every 5-10 days to counteract activity loss over 2-3 years. The high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. The petrochemical industry's shift to more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves, highlights PDH's growing importance, with numerous new installations planned globally.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions to prolong catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, as evidenced by the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but costly and hazardous, prompting research into safer, earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, which reduces efficiency. However, using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue, ensuring sustained process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is accelerated on small Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strongly adsorbed propylene triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts is crucial. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and deactivation. To improve selectivity, Pt-based catalysts' structures are modified, including size control, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, enhancing selectivity. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. Electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 catalysts for propene production offers higher activity and durability with lower coke formation rates compared to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, controlled by adjusting crystallite size, optimize the process. In industrial applications, ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration through carbon deposit removal, enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, employs PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Catalyst types like PtSn and PtCu impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, addressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process favoring high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, degrading their performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts effectively reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH like Oleflex, face the challenge of coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs are pivotal, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. They prevent coke formation, ensuring active site stability and promoting surface-bound propylene desorption, thus improving catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are vital for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for on-purpose propylene production. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits undesired side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with stable surfaces displaying isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites, is a solution. The Pt3 site requires modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows high conversion and selectivity without deactivation at high temperatures. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt, minimizing coke formation and improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, notably Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhance propylene selectivity by 90% and stability, inhibiting further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene strategies optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen plays a crucial role in suppressing coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity propene. With global PDH expansion, the industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, regenerating the catalyst every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a solution to propene supply shortfalls, but faces challenges like long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while reducing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with optimal temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their costs and toxicity prompt alternative exploration. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity; phosphate use and regeneration techniques mitigate this, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, while modifying catalyst supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH activates C-H bonds in propane for propene production, with ZrO2 outperforming Pt-based catalysts due to its unsaturated Zr sites and optimized crystallite size for enhanced propene selectivity. Industrial PDH is crucial for the chemical industry's propene supply. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, whereas ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, as seen in the CATOFIN process, minimizing costs and maximizing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, enhancing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated via oxidation without chlorine, maintaining the atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts typically requires redispersion of Pt particles, achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion, while introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helping.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys is critical for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst types like PtSn and PtCu influencing selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability under high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity, addressing the key challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into olefins at competitive costs due to abundant propane from natural gas (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which causes deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst, as demonstrated by PtCu/Al2O3 (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for large-scale propene production, employing Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism, revealing the complex network of reactions and the propensity for intermediates to form coke at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn intermetallic alloy catalysts, with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, enhance efficiency by improving selectivity and stability. The isolated Pt1 site promotes propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, preventing coke formation and facilitating propylene desorption. This structure prevents Pt and Zn atom segregation, maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures causes catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for industrial PDH. Severe deactivation requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, are effective. PtGa's (111) surface displays isolated Pt and Ga sites, with Pt3 sites being active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while retaining single-atom Pt, showing 30% conversion and 99.6% selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb maintains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, improving stability. Long-term, continuous, and selective propylene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, above 600°C, are crucial but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, suffer from selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation, effectively mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation and decrease the deactivating effect of coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its dependence on operating conditions are crucial considerations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity propene. With global PDH installations on the rise, the industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are crucial for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring CH bond activation for dehydrogenation over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impairs activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to sustain process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants improve dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electronic properties, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as a durable catalyst with adjustable active sites, offering high activity and selectivity at high temperatures. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating through propane/propene interaction, enhancing propene selectivity. Strategies to reduce coke formation include employing ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine addition, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen's oxidation to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts used commercially. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, such as Pt/Cu single atom alloys, enhance propene selectivity and stability at high temperatures, mitigating coke formation. For instance, high propene selectivity (90%) and stability were achieved under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing efficiency reduction caused by coke on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), where Pt-based catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for producing propene from propane, a low-cost feedstock sourced from abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency and addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for producing propene, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and controlling catalyst size, crucial for improving catalyst regeneration and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs and [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, crucial for efficient processes. Their structure prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures faces catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial application. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising, with PtPt ensembles active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but require thermal stability. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, addresses this. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Pb modification significantly enhances stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures, crucial for economically viable conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing growing demand. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn promoters for selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt/Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which improve selectivity, stability, and prevent further dehydrogenation by enhancing surface-bonded propylene desorption, thus boosting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke, as noted in studies [5] and [7]. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, with hydrogen decreasing both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a lucrative propene production method, capitalizing on the favorable price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield high-purity olefins, aligning with market demands. The industry is witnessing significant growth with numerous new PDH installations, leveraging cheaper shale-based ethane. High-energy demands and dwindling oil reserves drive the search for more efficient technologies. PDH employs a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with an endothermic reaction necessitating continuous operation. Catalysts maintain activity for 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, requiring frequent regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes, crucial for maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, bridging supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining activity, selectivity, and stability, reducing process complexity and costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but research is exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron to address cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Promoters like phosphate stabilize the catalyst surface, preventing coking, and regeneration techniques restore activity, mitigating the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH with Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure improves selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength prevents deep dehydrogenation and cracking. Strategies include modifying Pt structure, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitating C-H bond cleavage. Optimal performance is achieved by controlling crystallite size, and industrial applications are influenced by reaction conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Solving Pt sintering is more critical for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, marking significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge posed by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production at 550-700°C, faces challenges from side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Sn addition enhances catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, while Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH show promise for efficiency and energy savings.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a promising method for propene production from propane, is economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, leading to deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency and addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is vital for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and modifying catalyst composition, such as alloying Pt with other metals, and optimizing support properties. These measures aim to reduce coke formation and improve catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs and [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs are pivotal. [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, enhancing selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt-based catalysts are vital, with PtGa offering single-atom-like Pt sites that minimize side reactions to coke. The Pt3 site, however, is more active for undesired reactions. By modifying PtGa with Pb, which selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 sites intact, highly selective and stable PDH is achieved. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt-based catalysts, especially those enhanced with Sn, are crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, and single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can mitigate the deactivating effect of coke but can't remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, as studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts have shown.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. Using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the process yields polymer-quality purity. Catalyst activity is maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments, with continuous operation ensuring an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration every 5-10 days counters coke formation, a high-temperature challenge. The industry's shift to shale-based ethane highlights the move towards more economical feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting product selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles promote CH bond activation, enhancing dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under critical temperature and pressure conditions, utilizing Pt and Cr catalysts. Earth-abundant alternatives are being explored. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying the Pt catalyst's structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's activity, controllable by crystallite size, enhances propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits make it cost-effective in industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C; without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining their atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst types impacting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, hindering efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by high selectivity and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, effectively addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation, degrading Pt catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt enhances catalyst longevity by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy use, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C (Quote 2), is a key industrial route for propene production. Catalysts include Pt and Cr oxide (Quote 3), with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for high selectivity and durability (Quote 6). However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen (Quote 11), alloying Pt with metals, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts are crucial, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage in propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles facilitates propylene desorption, preventing coke side reactions and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production demands high temperatures, causing coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on balancing propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, notably PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding PDH performance at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions need heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating Pt-based catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts with CCR technology maintain stable activity. Industrial PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under pressure. Coke reduces efficiency, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation includes platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt catalysts with Sn for selectivity, is pivotal for propene production. The primary hurdle is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene optimizes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts used in Oleflex processes. These catalysts rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation enables optimization of reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles and boost propene output. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity can lower coking rates. Coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to suppress precursor formation, reducing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation. However, hydrogen cannot remove existing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It's an on-purpose technique yielding pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with numerous PDH installations under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days combat coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps from conventional sources. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke acting as a promoter to improve selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in Pt site behavior over time might explain the decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles, as observed in the study.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, being critical. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but research seeks more abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. To address this, promoters like phosphate prevent coking, and regeneration techniques restore catalyst activity, maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH to propene, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by smaller Pt clusters. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, especially under high temperatures, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts, adding Sn for better regeneration, CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's unsaturated Zr sites, offering superior activity and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Optimal crystallite sizes enhance propene selectivity and reduce coke formation. Coke on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs. Strategies include ZrO2 use and oxidative regeneration to remove coke and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, compared to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to the challenge of sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is crucial for propene production. Optimal conditions involve a temperature around 520°C and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, with high temperatures promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst. This approach improves the process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, utilizing Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, employing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles in Pt1M1 IMA catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus mitigating coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption, which improves catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures causes catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial use. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation under high temperatures requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH hinge on balancing propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa are effective, with the Pt1 site acting as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for side reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high conversion with excellent propene selectivity at 600°C, with single-atom Pt catalyzing initial CH activation and inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for efficiency, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promoters for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for efficient noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is a key propene production method. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism needing further understanding. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which facilitate electron transfer, decreasing coking, and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, which weakens propylene adsorption, suppressing dehydrogenation and polymerization. Coke formation rates are influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to the favorable price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. This on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins of polymer-quality purity, optimized for industrial demands. The global increase in PDH installations reflects a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. Reaction conditions involve a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while necessary for high olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating strategies for improved catalyst regeneration to preserve efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, as observed on Pt-SBA-15-DP compared to Pt-SBA-15-IMP. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene, with efficiency hinged on temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but iron-based options are explored for cost and toxicity reasons. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing resistant catalysts, alongside enhancing regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Strong propylene adsorption leads to coke formation, deactivating the catalyst. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying the Pt surface structure to improve selectivity and control coke formation. Promoters like Sn and CeO2 enhance catalyst stability and oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon deposition migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, optimizing active site concentration and enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 is a durable, industrially relevant alternative with higher activity and cost-effectiveness for propene production in processes like CATOFIN. It regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, mitigating coke formation, which reduces efficiency on Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 regenerates through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor increases coke content to 2.8wt%, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloy catalysts is vital for propene production, with optimal conditions at 520°C and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high temperatures while reducing coke formation. Coke on Pt-based catalysts decreases efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene formation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, mitigating coke's impact.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH transforms propane to propene at high temperatures, risking side reactions and coke formation that can deactivate Pt catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts extends their lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation presents strategies to decrease energy consumption, enabling PDH at lower temperatures, which boosts efficiency and minimizes coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges due to significant deactivation and low selectivity caused by coke formation and CC bond cleavage. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, as demonstrated by PtCu/Al2O3's ability to inhibit propylene adsorption and increase the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process at temperatures above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts, valued for selectivity and durability, employed in UOP's Oleflex process. However, coke formation significantly impacts Pt catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. These measures aim to reduce coke formation, which covers catalysts and blocks active sites, improving efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propene desorption and prevent coke formation, ensuring catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable catalysts are vital for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying with Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, excels in high-temperature PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. High selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke, ensuring high stability. This combination achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, essential for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, surpassing traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a significant challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage, enhance propylene desorption, and prevent further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a pivotal commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, which decreases coke formation and its deactivating effect. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price difference between propane and propylene. It yields high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and global capacity is expanding due to cheap natural gas liquids, shifting steam cracking from naphtha to ethane. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year catalyst life span maintained by temperature adjustments. The process is continuous, with a 5-10 day catalyst regeneration cycle. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, as evidenced by the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts, where the former showed almost two orders of magnitude higher coke content after 220 minutes on stream.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, with catalyst choice and reaction conditions impacting process efficiency. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, have cost and toxicity issues, leading to exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt catalysts, which reduces activity and selectivity. To mitigate coking, strategies include using phosphate and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and lowering selectivity. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for stability, CeO2 enhances oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation in propane, is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which outperform Pt-based ones in activity and durability due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications benefit from this. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, whereas ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs and maximizing propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through chlorine-free oxidation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts is pivotal for propene production. Pt/Cu single atom alloy (SAA) catalysts enhance propene selectivity to 90% and stability over 120 hours, effectively controlling coke formation. Coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can restore catalyst activity, mitigating coke's negative effects.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces challenges due to high-temperature requirements that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, degrading their performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts effectively reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to lower PDH temperatures, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, leveraging low-cost propane from natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, as seen in PtCu/Al2O3, inhibit propylene adsorption, diminishing coke formation and suppressing the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and CrOx catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in UOP's Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size, as computational simulations elucidate deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn catalysts with a 1:1 molar ratio are effective at high temperatures, with [PtZn4] ensembles acting as active sites for selective C-H cleavage in propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures causing catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts in intermetallic compounds like PtGa, modified with Pb, stabilize Pt1 sites at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% propane conversion. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, leading to the incorporation of Sn for enhanced propene output. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major hurdle, causing deactivation. Single-atom catalysts, particularly Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, improve propene selectivity and stability by preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving up to 90% selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers the most active and resistant catalyst to deep dehydrogenation, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity like SBA-15, and controlling hydrogen presence to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation but not existing coke, as studies by Larsson et al. and Rebo et al. have shown. The rate of coke formation is sensitive to operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, favored by the price gap between propane and propylene, is expanding globally. Optimized for polymer-quality olefins, the industry shifts to shale-based ethane for economical feedstock. A PtSn-based catalyst, used for 2-3 years, maintains activity through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation is required due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. Catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days combats the critical challenge of coke formation, which impacts efficiency at high temperatures optimal for olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently bridges propylene supply gaps by converting propane to propene, yet faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research efforts are geared towards developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thereby extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity compared to larger particles (21 nm), with a notable increase in coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 is contingent on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, as evidenced in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might stem from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with optimal temperature and pressure critical. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, but interest shifts to earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts. Thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions can regenerate catalysts, tackling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, reduces efficiency. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalyst structures, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability. CeO2 promoters boost oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using ZrO2 as a catalyst is an industrially relevant alternative for propene production, offering enhanced activity and durability. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, facilitates C-H bond cleavage at high temperatures, improving propene selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Unlike Pt-based catalysts where coke reduces PDH efficiency, ZrO2 mitigates this issue by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, making it a cost-effective choice for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation for regeneration, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) is crucial for efficient propene production. These SAAs enhance propene desorption, prevent over-dehydrogenation, and offer high selectivity and stability. They mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical issue that reduces efficiency, by maintaining high propene formation and low deactivation rates. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles effectively addresses coke formation, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH produces propene via an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. Adding Sn to these catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a vital petrochemical, but requires high temperatures that promote coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Adding promoters like Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, as demonstrated by the inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability, are crucial in Oleflex, where regeneration combats coke via chlorine-air combustion. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include hydrogen co-feeding, Pt alloying with Sn and other transition metals, and support modifications, enhancing catalyst regeneration and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, featuring [PtZn4] active sites, enhance selectivity and stability at high temperatures. The electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates propane's C-H cleavage, preventing further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving propene desorption and stability. This mechanism inhibits coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation, crucial for addressing the coke formation challenge on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures causes catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for stable propene production. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Alloying Pt with Sn is a conventional approach. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa acts as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. This is due to the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites, which minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstandingly high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Heat for the endothermic reaction is provided by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of propylene at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt/Sn catalysts enhance propene selectivity but face coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts for optimized noble metal usage and catalytic properties, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for improved propene desorption and selectivity, and doped graphene for enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propene adsorption, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. Industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The reaction operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, in a continuous system, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to maintain efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    