Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, with challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time, as observed in studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is removed from propane, with temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face cost and toxicity issues, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques can restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure construction improves selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation, forming coke and lowering selectivity. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and poor stability. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to improve stability, CeO2 to reduce coke, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports like TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production is influenced by temperature and pressure. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's activity is controlled by crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity. In industrial applications, PDH is crucial for the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include using optimal crystallite sizes for propene selectivity and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's (CeO2) redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts, when co-fed with water vapor, maintain a coke content below 1wt% after 6 hours at 680°C, whereas its absence increases coke content to 2.8wt%, impacting conversion negatively. Spent catalysts can be effectively regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without the need for added chlorine, addressing the challenge of catalyst regeneration in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to issues like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst fully deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys, such as PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, with efficient regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requires high temperatures for conversion, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting efficiency. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, which deactivates them (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu as a promoter can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving the PDH process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored in Oleflex for high selectivity. However, coke formation hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include hydrogen co-feeding, Pt alloying with Sn or other metals, support modifications, and controlling Pt size, as computational simulations reveal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance propene selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The ordered crystalline structure of PtZn IMAs prevents coke side reactions and promotes desorption of surface-bound propene, improving thermal stability and catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with isolated Pt1 and threefold Pt3 sites. Pb-modified PtGa, with Pb blocking threefold Pt sites while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at temperatures above 580°C.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts are favored for their high activity and selectivity, but coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge causing deactivation. Mitigation strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a key propylene production method since the 1980s, significantly boosts global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in commercial Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions, reducing dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, and enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price differential between propane and propylene. It excels in producing specific olefins and polymer-quality purity. The industry is expanding with numerous new PDH installations. The US shift to shale-based ethane for steam cracking highlights the search for economical feedstock. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures boost olefin yields but also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, addressing propylene supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to greater coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke enhancing selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, involving propane's hydrogen removal. Critical factors include reaction conditions and catalyst choice, with traditional Pt and Cr options being costly and hazardous. Recent studies highlight promising iron-based catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* is a challenge. Smaller Pt clusters accelerate deactivation. Rational Pt surface design improves selectivity and coke control. Propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying, and selecting supports. Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx increases Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 for propene production offers high efficiency and selectivity. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites cleave C-H bonds in propane, making it a viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene output. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene yield. Industrial PDH applications include chemicals production. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, critical for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, chlorine-free.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, though chlorine has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature and pressure. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys, enhance propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency, but Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate this issue. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows potential for improving PDH efficiency and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing Pt-based catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face deactivation due to coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies include adding promoters like Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for selectivity and durability in commercial PDH, face a significant challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, act as key active sites that enhance selectivity and stability at high temperatures by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene, thus preventing coke formation. This structure improves stability by prohibiting coke side reactions and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits these reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active. SiO2-supported PtGaPb catalysts show outstanding performance in PDH at 600 °C, with high conversion and selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation. PtGaPb retains high performance under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production is achieved at high temperatures. PtGaPb maintains its structure, showing high thermal stability. Stability tests at 650 °C reveal gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction benefits from heat generated during catalyst regeneration and direct fuel combustion. High temperatures, crucial for the process, accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, maintains stable activity without reactor shutdowns, enabling large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, overcoming traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency hurdle, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which improve selectivity and stability, reduce noble metal usage, and prevent further dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to unclear coke formation mechanisms. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to sustain activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rate and minimize cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates, compared to larger particles. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives like iron for cost and toxicity reasons. Coke formation on Pt catalysts hinders activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne is vital for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, is a critical issue. Small Pt clusters accelerate deactivation due to higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface design enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength suppresses deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts, adding Sn for stability, CeO2 for oxygen mobility and coke reduction, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and dopants like TiOx enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, optimizes propene selectivity by adjusting its crystallite size, enhancing active site concentration. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, offering an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. It mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH efficiency, through in-situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction, minimizing coke and maximizing propene yield for chemical industry applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing sintering and coke formation on catalysts. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition during propane conversion. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, and showing high stability and anti-coke capability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at 550-700°C, promoting coke formation that degrades Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise in addressing the coke formation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4), economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation (Quote 5). However, as an endothermic, equilibrium-limited reaction, PDH requires high temperatures that can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face limitations due to coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10, 11). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored in Oleflex for high selectivity and durability, face a significant challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, thus boosting propene output. These ensembles inhibit further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke side reactions and improving selectivity. Their stability ensures propylene desorption, prohibiting coke formation and maintaining the integrity of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial use. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation at high temperatures requires continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propylene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is crucial for selective PDH, while the Pt3 site promotes further CH(C) scissions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt catalysts for propene production, is enhanced by Sn addition for selectivity. The critical challenge is coke formation, causing deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalysts mitigate coke, improving selectivity and stability. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of Pt atoms, with positively charged single Pt atoms being most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions, reducing dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, and enhancing propene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove existing coke. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from current market conditions due to the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation selectively yields high-purity olefins, aligning with industry trends towards cheaper shale-based ethane over naphtha. The petrochemical sector seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies to address high-energy demands and low olefin selectivity. A PtSn catalyst operates at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to combat coke formation, a challenge at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply shortfalls, with challenges including hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Decreased initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, where temperature and pressure are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and hazardous, leading to interest in earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by high coking rates on small Pt clusters. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalyst structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds, offering industrial relevance and outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx species. ZrO2's ability to regenerate in situ through propane/propene interaction mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge on Pt-based catalysts, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke include employing ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, which significantly reduces coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion efficiency. Without water vapor, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, reducing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key considerations include temperature and pressure. Catalysts determine selectivity and activity, with coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for converting propane to propene, essential for propene production. High temperatures, required for high conversion rates, also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding promoter elements like Sn can extend catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research is exploring Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation to enhance PDH efficiency at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoters like Cu, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propylene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are essential, with Pt-based catalysts employed in the Oleflex commercial process from UOP, featuring regeneration via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts, despite high selectivity and durability, face the challenge of coke formation, which hampers performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, are critical as they enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles prevent coke formation, ensuring the segregation resistance of Pt and Zn atoms, which is essential for catalyst performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing propylene production. Severe deactivation from coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available improves PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a major challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation. Doped graphene strategies further optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke is noted, though it cannot remove formed coke. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and only a small part of the formed coke is responsible for catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction, reflecting the industry's shift to shale-based ethane for steam cracking. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1-3 bar and temperatures of 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by gradual temperature increases to counteract activity loss. However, high temperatures favor coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply. Challenges include long-chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifespan. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, involving propane's hydrogen removal. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives. Reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency and selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, where propyne (CH3CCH*) is crucial for CC bond breaking. However, catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational construction of Pt surface structures for enhanced selectivity, weakening propylene adsorption, and suppressing deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Adding Sn for regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration improve performance. Coreshell Pt catalysts offer enhanced efficiency and selectivity, while suitable supports modify catalytic performance effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing propane's C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave these bonds. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity through controlled crystallite size. ZrO2's in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction mitigates coke formation, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Industrial applications include propene production for chemicals, plastics, and detergents. Strategies to combat coke formation involve using durable ZrO2 catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance selectivity and activity, achieving 90% selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption for lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins. Its economic competitiveness is bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves the process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Platinum, especially in Oleflex, and chromium oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, aiding in the development of more efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn IMAs, a type of Pt1M1 IMA catalyst, significantly enhance efficiency and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these catalysts act as key active sites, promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting coke formation, thus improving selectivity. The geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials, are essential for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is the use of single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable (111) surface has isolated and threefold Pt sites. For PDH, the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for meeting the increasing propene demand, with Pt/Sn catalysts excelling in propylene selectivity. The key challenge is coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can enhance the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to reduce coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove existing coke. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer purity. The growing number of PDH installations reflects its importance. Shifting to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by its high availability and lower cost. The petrochemical industry seeks efficient conversion technologies due to high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over a 2-3 year lifespan. The reaction operates continuously at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C for uninterrupted product flow. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membrane use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls from conventional sources. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. The size of Pt particles significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with coke acting as a promoter to improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to changes in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure critical for performance. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using promoters like phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical challenge. Small Pt clusters accelerate deactivation due to higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is essential to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting supports to improve performance. Coreshell catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2 catalysts with unsaturated Zr sites, offering an alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's active site concentration, adjustable by crystallite size, boosts propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency; strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and optimizing crystallite sizes to minimize coke. Industrial PDH applications, such as propene production for the chemical industry, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, enabling cost-effective catalyst regeneration in processes like CATOFIN.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, vital for sustaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation treatment sans chlorine, boosting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using a non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, uses PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure and high temperatures. PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs are key catalysts affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs notably mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency issue, by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, are improved with Sn promoters, extending catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption for lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation that deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability, addressing a critical PDH challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are key, with Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex, facing coke formation challenges that hinder performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] intermetallic alloy catalysts boost efficiency and stability by facilitating initial C-H cleavage of propane, favoring propylene production and inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption, mitigating Pt and Zn atom segregation and coke buildup.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, crucial for equilibrium conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for meeting growing propene demand, with Pt/Sn catalysts enhancing selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency challenge. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for better selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal use and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a significant contributor to global propylene production since the 1980s, employs Pt-based catalysts, which are prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and produce polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction worldwide. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking is driven by the availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under specific conditions, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time, as observed in experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are expensive and hazardous, respectively. Iron-based materials are emerging as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration can mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism with propyne as a critical intermediate. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* on small Pt clusters leads to catalyst deactivation, a major challenge. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, weakening propylene adsorption strength to suppress deep dehydrogenation, and managing high-temperature conditions to maintain 60-80% propylene selectivity. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection boosts propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promoters increase oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers higher durability and lower coke formation compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated sites efficiently cleave C-H bonds, with activity controlled by crystallite size. This makes it an industrially relevant alternative, capable of in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts leads to deactivation, but strategies like using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can restore catalyst activity, addressing the critical challenge in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically minimizing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C; without it, coke content escalates to 2.8wt%, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Commercial PDH uses supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts, with Pt catalysts being a research focus due to their sintering and coke formation challenges. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles leads to permanent deactivation, but this can be mitigated by adding a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 to improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Strategies to slow coking and prolong regeneration time include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key factors include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions, as demonstrated by high propene selectivity (90%) and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that boost conversion but also promote side reactions and coke deposition, risking catalyst sintering. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts effectively reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, leveraging abundant natural gas resources. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, operating at temperatures above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, act as key active sites, promoting propane C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst performance and stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable PtGa compounds is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb/SiO2 catalysts show 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Innovative strategies, such as employing single-atom catalysts like Pt on Cu nanoparticles, minimize noble metal usage while boosting propylene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicts the most active and stable configuration, as confirmed by first-principles calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, are crucial but prone to rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Understanding coke formation is vital for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Alkali metals provide electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions, with hydrogen shown to decrease the rate of coke formation and the deactivating effect of the coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price dynamics. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and is favored by the shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalyst life maintained by temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream, with regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures boost olefin yields but also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Pt particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where temperature and pressure are critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr have cost and toxicity issues, leading to exploration of earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke and reduced efficiency, exacerbated by small Pt clusters. Rational construction of Pt surface structures improves selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength suppresses deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures increase coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt structures, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. Interaction of TiOx with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, offers higher activity and durability than Pt-based alternatives. Coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with crystallite size adjustments enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction in the CATOFIN process, reducing overall costs. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke, maximizing propene yield. Oxidative regeneration techniques can also restore catalyst activity by removing coke deposits.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing sintering and coke formation on catalysts. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without water vapor, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process for propene production, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen's oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be enhanced by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration requires redispersion of sintered Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. PtSn/CeO2 deactivated catalysts can be fully regenerated by coke burning, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical process for propene production, operates at atmospheric pressure, 520°C, with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. PtM alloy catalysts, notably PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, are essential for selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and high stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours, mitigating coke formation that reduces efficiency. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for efficiency but risking coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which impacts performance. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces deactivation, enhancing lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is economically competitive for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote [5]). However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote [7]). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote [10]). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial PDH processes, including Oleflex, where regeneration involves coke combustion. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting coke formation. These ensembles facilitate propene desorption and prevent Pt/Zn segregation, crucial for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials meet global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on propylene desorption vs. coke-forming side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in intermetallic compounds offers thermal stability. PtGa, with isolated and threefold Pt sites, is promising. However, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa, blocking threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains, shows high performance in PDH at high temperatures. PtGaPb/SiO2 achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation, minimizing coke and improving stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production. PtGaPb demonstrates high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. Stability at 650 °C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. High propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke, enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction requires heat, sourced from catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts, evolving from chromia-alumina to noble metals like platinum, benefit from UOP's CCR technology, enabling stable activity for years. PDH produces light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling stability, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, but coke formation remains a significant challenge causing deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene's potential to tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms predicts enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen reduces coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins, unlike mixed products from other methods, and is optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is witnessing a global surge in PDH installations, driven by a shift from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The dehydrogenation step, endothermic in nature, requires high temperatures that promote coke formation, a critical challenge impacting catalyst performance. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, compensating for conventional cracker shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles might result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research is exploring earth-abundant alternatives like iron to address cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration can restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical issue. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength suppresses deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. This alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts is durable and industrially relevant. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications, such as propene production for the chemical industry, require high temperatures (550-625°C) and pressure for reaction efficiency. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity, along with its ability to regenerate through carbon deposit removal, make it a cost-effective choice for the CATOFIN process. Oxidative regeneration techniques can also restore catalyst activity by removing coke deposits.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, whereas coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloy catalysts under atmospheric pressure and 520°C, is vital for propene production. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates optimally at high temperatures, which also promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. To combat coking, strategies include adding promoter elements like Sn, enhancing catalyst lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH at lower temperatures aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke formation and lower propylene selectivity. Strategies like the addition of Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke formation and enhance selectivity, improving the efficiency of the PDH process and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex exhibit high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly degrades catalytic performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. These measures aim to curb coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn IMAs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, act as active sites that enhance selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage of propane. These ensembles prevent further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, improving efficiency and preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. Long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation is achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heated by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale dehydrogenation units for light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt-based catalysts, while active, struggle with selectivity and coke formation, which deactivates the catalyst and reduces efficiency. Adding Sn to Pt boosts propene selectivity. To tackle coke formation, strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which significantly increase propene selectivity by 90% by improving desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is a key propene production method, significantly contributing to global supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce deactivation cycles and enhance propene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, which is structure-sensitive. Studies suggest hydrogen can mitigate the deactivating effect of coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering high-purity olefins exclusively. The technique's on-purpose nature and optimized processes for polymer-quality olefins make it advantageous. The industry shifts from naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, addressing high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for consistent activity. Operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the continuous system undergoes regeneration cycles every 5-10 days, crucial for managing coke formation, which degrades catalyst performance over time. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, preserving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical propene production method, addressing propylene supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research targets developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while curbing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where optimal reaction conditions and catalyst selection are paramount. Common catalysts like Pt and Cr, despite effectiveness, face issues of cost and toxicity, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes efficiency; strategies such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration are employed to mitigate this, enhancing process sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation due to CH3CC* and C* formation leads to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Rational construction of Pt surface structures improves selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, affecting selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx improves selectivity and extends catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized by ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds and offers an industrial alternative to Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this issue through in situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction. Industrial applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to combat coke formation include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques to remove carbon deposits, optimizing the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, necessitating high temperatures that can cause catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation without chlorine, highlighting effective regeneration strategies.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering resistance can be achieved with Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH process efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, operates under atmospheric pressure at 520°C with a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, PtGe, and PtCu influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving 90% propene selectivity with excellent stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures (550-700°C), which promotes side reactions and coke deposition, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Enhancing Pt catalysts with Sn extends their lifetime, addressing coking issues. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise for future commercialization and energy efficiency, mitigating coke formation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane into propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, and improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic industrial process for propene production, operating above 500°C (Quote 2). Catalysts are categorized into metals, like platinum (Quote 3), used in the Oleflex process for its selectivity and durability (Quote 4, 6). Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air (Quote 5). Coke formation, a critical challenge, degrades performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen (Quote 11), alloying Pt with Sn (Quote 12), and using transition metals like Cu and Zn (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. These ensembles improve stability by preventing coke formation and facilitating the desorption of surface-bound propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance decline, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing demand beyond traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal propene selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles boost surface-bonded propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, key in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions and exclusive propene yield. The shift to shale-based ethane in the US drives dozens of new PDH installations globally. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The endothermic dehydrogenation step uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts are regenerated every 5-10 days to counteract activity loss over 2-3 years. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research targets enhancing catalysts for higher DHP reaction rates and minimized side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, where reaction conditions and catalyst choice are pivotal. Common catalysts Pt and Cr are costly and toxic, prompting research into earth-abundant, non-toxic alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency; mitigating strategies, such as phosphate use and catalyst regeneration, are essential.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, reducing selectivity. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. TiOx enhances electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH catalytically converts propane to propene by activating the C-H bond, with ZrO2 as a durable catalyst due to its efficient C-H bond cleavage. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it superior to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, ensuring high efficiency and propene yield in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation treatment sans chlorine, preserving atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency. Pt/Cu single atom alloys effectively mitigate coke formation, achieving high propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours under high temperatures. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting propane conversion but also side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn enhance catalyst lifetime by reducing coking, while Co-based catalysts show potential for commercialization. Microwave irradiation is explored to improve PDH efficiency and lower energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. (Quotes 4, 7, 9, 10, 16)", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes like Oleflex, face a significant challenge from coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the need for effective coke management to maintain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These sites promote the initial and secondary C-H cleavage of propane, preventing further dehydrogenation and coke formation. This mechanism improves selectivity and stability by facilitating propene desorption and avoiding Pt and Zn atom segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high-temperature requirements leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH depend on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency hurdle, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To address this, modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 can reduce coking. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions, and hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, specifically the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, with optimized industrial processes. The global increase in PDH installations reflects growing demand. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. The high temperatures required for high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    