Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include cracking and coke formation on catalysts, affecting selectivity and requiring frequent regeneration. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). This impacts catalyst lifetime and increases operational costs. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, with Pt particle size controlling coke formation. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Strategies involve optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to balance CH and CC bond activation, crucial for selectivity to C3H6.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure critical for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity concerns. Coke formation on Pt catalysts hinders activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, leading to coke formation, is a critical challenge. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this issue, with selectivity around 60-80% and poor stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as a catalyst, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity and outperforming Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene. Designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes minimizes coke and maximizes propene yield. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for chemicals, plastics, and detergents, with ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and regeneration ability making it cost-effective in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing sintering and coke formation, which can be mitigated by ceria's redox properties enabling water vapor usage. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content with water vapor at 680°C, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts fully regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, propane-to-nitrogen ratio, and catalyst type, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, and regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, where high temperatures are essential for propane conversion but also promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, degrading their performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on alternative catalysts and lower-temperature PDH methods, like microwave irradiation, aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically competitive due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The addition of promoters is a key strategy to improve catalyst regeneration and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes for their high selectivity. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. To address this, atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs are developed, where [PtZn4] ensembles act as key active sites. The electron-rich Pt1 site promotes C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity. This structure improves stability by prohibiting coke formation and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation, mitigating coke side reactions and improving catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb, retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains its structure and small particle sizes, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with the high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, utilizing Pt catalysts for their high activity, enhanced by Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using single-atom catalysts, which minimize noble metal usage and improve catalytic properties. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene enhance propylene selectivity and stability, predicted to be less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, thereby decreasing coke formation and its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a lucrative propene production method, driven by favorable market conditions due to the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, aligning with industry trends towards shale-based ethane. Seeking economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the petrochemical sector addresses high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for consistent activity. Operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the continuous system faces the challenge of coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges like cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research focuses on developing catalysts to minimize cracking and prolong catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Particle size significantly affects coking, with smaller particles leading to higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with temperature and pressure critical for selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but alternatives like iron are explored due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Alloying Pt, selecting supports, and using coreshell catalysts improve selectivity and stability. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' structure and electronic properties enhances propene selectivity. Coreshell catalysts offer lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt atoms hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane, optimizing active site concentration for enhanced propene selectivity. ZrO2, with higher activity and durability, offers an industrially viable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through lattice oxygen removal with propane/propene, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. PDH, conducted at high temperatures (550-625°C), is crucial for chemical industry applications, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques manage coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium (Quote 1). If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation (Quote 2). PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts (Quote 4). Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and Pt/Cu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types determine selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation that degrade Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing high-selectivity, anti-coking catalysts is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like Cu addition can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, as evidenced by quote 16: 'Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.'", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, employing Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, offer high selectivity and durability but face challenges with coke formation, which hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs boost selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, which facilitate initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving propene desorption and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propylene production, requires high temperatures for sufficient yields, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry, with severe deactivation under high-temperature conditions necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying active metals with inactive ones enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable surface displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, stabilizing single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation, and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propylene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Single-atom catalysts, particularly Pt on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene, are promising strategies to mitigate coke formation, minimizing noble metal usage and improving catalytic properties. These catalysts enhance desorption of surface-bonded propylene and prohibit further dehydrogenation, thus improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. To optimize reaction conditions and enhance propene productivity, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to reduce coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rate and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to favorable market conditions, offering an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production. Optimized for polymer-quality purity, PDH installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by energy demands, selectivity issues, and oil prices. The endothermic reaction's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments over 2-3 years. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures, while boosting olefin yields, also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Catalyst regeneration is crucial but increases process complexity and costs. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to rearrangement or modifications in Pt site behavior during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr, despite their costs and toxicity, are used, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces efficiency; strategies like phosphate use and catalyst regeneration mitigate its impact, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs Pt catalysts, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by smaller Pt clusters. Optimizing Pt surface structure and weakening propylene adsorption are critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation and enhance selectivity. High temperatures intensify coke formation, affecting propene selectivity and catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts through size control, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated sites cleave C-H bonds, with activity tunable by adjusting crystallite size. Operating at 550-625 degrees Celsius, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst choice. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, a critical challenge leading to deactivation. Strategies include in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction and designing optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's carbon deposit removal, enhancing propene production for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, preventing conversion drops. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates optimally at 550-700°C. High temperatures, while boosting conversion rates, also promote side reactions and coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn reduce coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures shows promise, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting propane into olefins (Quote 4). The process requires high temperatures due to its endothermic nature, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and selectivity issues (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, utilizing metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, featured in UOP's Oleflex, regenerate via coke combustion with chlorine-air. Despite Pt's selectivity and durability, coke formation at high temperatures hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, Pt alloying with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance thermal stability and isolated active sites. These ensembles promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, improving selectivity and stability. They also facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation through structural ordering, crucial for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying with Sn enhances propene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Incorporating single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, achieving high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation. Continuous and highly selective propene production at high temperatures is achieved without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional techniques. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn to boost propene selectivity, are crucial. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. To mitigate coke, strategies include utilizing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can further refine the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while supports with weak acidity weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields specific olefins, unlike mixed-product methods, and can produce polymer-quality olefins. The industry is shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is heat-dependent, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the progressive loss of activity due to coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing propylene supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts for increased DHP reaction rate and reduced cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Pt particle size significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coking rates, with smaller particles being more active but less selective, leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Strategies aim to optimize particle size and understand surface intermediates' role in desorbing as C3H6 or cracking further. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio, with larger Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being pivotal. Common catalysts Pt and Cr are costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency hurdle, but using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can effectively address this challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs Pt catalysts, operating via the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Coke formation on Pt, leading to catalyst deactivation, is a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke include rational design of Pt surface structure, addition of promoters like Sn and CeO2 to enhance catalyst stability and reduce coke deposition, and using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration from active sites to the carrier. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, selecting appropriate supports, and using dopants enhance selectivity and stability. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Tailoring Pt catalysts and supports is essential for efficient PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs catalysts like ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in propane due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts, mitigating coke formation, a critical challenge in PDH that reduces efficiency. ZrO2 allows in situ regeneration by removing carbon deposits, improving durability and reducing costs. Strategies to minimize coke include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing efficiency. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, maintaining atomically dispersed state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts used commercially. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation, can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). PtSn/CeO2 catalysts show high selectivity and can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu single atom alloys, influence selectivity and activity, showing high stability and anti-coke capability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency, but successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization, offering improved catalytic properties, addressing coke formation challenges and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. High temperatures required for the endothermic PDH process lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges like deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke formation and enhance stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. (Quote 4) PDH is considered a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) However, the high reaction temperature required for PDH leads to coke deposition. (Quote 9) Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high activity and stability, but (Quote 11) significant deactivation from coke formation and low propylene selectivity constrain their performance. (Quote 15) Strategies to mitigate coke formation, like adding Cu, improve process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, employing metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs are critical, offering enhanced thermal stability and isolated Pt1 sites that promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, where the geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site facilitates the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions and promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production demands high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are critical for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability hinge on the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms in Pt-based catalysts inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution. PtGaPb, with threefold Pt blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt, enabling long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures, critical for conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, are enhanced with Sn for improved propylene selectivity. A significant challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts, which promote desorption of surface-bonded propylene, preventing further dehydrogenation. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and minimizing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke, and is effective in mitigating the deactivating effect of coke formed. Understanding coke formation is critical for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield high-purity olefins, optimized for polymer-quality. The petrochemical industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with a catalyst life of 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The system operates continuously, regenerating catalysts every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coke formation rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). This significantly impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration and increasing operational costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, though their limitations prompt the search for better alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking, such as using phosphate, and catalyst regeneration techniques are essential for maintaining performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a crucial intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, impacting efficiency, occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke. Smaller Pt clusters have higher coking rates due to larger surface areas. Rational design of Pt surface structure improves selectivity and controls coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with propylene selectivity around 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for enhanced oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx improves selectivity and extends catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production involves C-H bond activation in propane, with ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds and control active site concentration through crystallite size adjustment, enhancing propene selectivity. ZrO2 is a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes can mitigate coke formation. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with high temperatures (550-625°C) promoting dehydrogenation. ZrO2's high activity and selectivity towards propene production make it a preferred catalyst, and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits and restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, though this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. This catalyst demonstrates excellent stability and anti-coke capability, with high propene selectivity (90%) under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours, and can be regenerated through oxidation-reduction cycles to restore initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote coke formation, affecting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts extends their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, offering economic benefits due to low-cost feedstock. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene using metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, featured in UOP's Oleflex process, face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, adjusting support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, act as key active sites. They promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The ordered structure prevents Pt and Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst efficiency and preventing coke side reactions, thus enhancing propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly isolated Pt atoms, can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and alloy catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site requires modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa retains high conversion and excellent selectivity at 600°C for 50 hours, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies include employing atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, utilizing single-atom catalysts to economize on noble metals and boost catalytic properties, and deploying Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. To mitigate coking, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while weakly acidic supports suppress propylene dehydrogenation and polymerization. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation without removing formed coke, and can mitigate the deactivating effect of coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from the price gap between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade quality, and is an on-purpose technique. The industry is expanding with numerous PDH installations, shifting from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and declining oil reserves. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years and regenerating every 5-10 days. High temperatures, ideal for olefin production, also encourage coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical method for propene production, addressing the shortfall in supply. However, challenges arise from cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research efforts are directed towards developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity compared to larger particles (21 nm), leading to increased coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers a comprehensive analysis of activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones promote CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, enhancing selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face issues of cost and toxicity, prompting research into earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques can mitigate this challenge, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx interaction with Pt reduces propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds due to coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's efficiency can be controlled by adjusting crystallite size, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but ZrO2 regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene. This, combined with optimal crystallite sizes, mitigates coke formation. Industrial applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, allowing for cost-effective regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing sintering and coke formation on catalysts. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors are temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, like Pt/Cu SAA, significantly affect selectivity and activity, achieving 90% selectivity and stability at 520°C under atmospheric pressure for over 120 hours. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAA catalysts enhance propylene desorption, mitigating coke formation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH shows promise for commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. High temperatures required for the endothermic reaction lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing high-selectivity, anti-coking catalysts is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is a key industrial method for large-scale propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are employed, with Pt-based catalysts, used in the Oleflex commercial process, facing the challenge of coke formation that hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) boosts selectivity and stability by utilizing [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites. These sites facilitate propane's C-H cleavage, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and promote propylene desorption. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] prevents Pt and Zn segregation, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial application. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites, where the Pt3 site is active for further CH(C) scissions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, showing 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing traditional method shortfalls. Pt/Sn catalysts are central but susceptible to deactivation by coke formation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, thus improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being pivotal in Oleflex processes. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation on Pt catalysts poses a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to lower coking rates. Hydrogen's role is crucial as it suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but it cannot remove formed coke. Understanding and controlling coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propene output.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene instead of a mix of products, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The endothermic reaction's duration depends on the catalyst bed's heat content. The system operates continuously for an uninterrupted product stream, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to counteract the performance deterioration caused by coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Frequent regeneration increases costs. Research focuses on enhancing DHP rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles accumulating more coke. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on catalyst performance. Reaction mechanisms involve surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, where temperature and pressure are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity prompt the search for alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency; strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and reducing selectivity. High-temperature conditions exacerbate this, with propylene selectivity around 60-80% and poor catalyst stability. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures can increase selectivity toward propylene. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can improve selectivity and extend catalyst use by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability compared to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's ability to cleave C-H bonds and regenerate in situ through propane/propene interaction mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge that reduces efficiency on Pt-based catalysts. Optimal crystallite sizes further minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications, focusing on propene production, benefit from ZrO2's cost minimization through regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Sintering, a thermally activated process, causes Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Coke formation is categorized into quick deactivation and steady state, with activity loss not simply correlating to coke amount. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation occurs when Pt particles are covered by coke. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial for PDH improvement. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloy catalysts like PtSn and PtCu, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio, are key. Catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, converting propane to propene in a strongly endothermic reaction. High temperatures can lead to side reactions and coke deposition, affecting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, especially when promoted with Sn, have shown increased lifetime by reducing deactivation due to coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. Its economic appeal stems from abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke deposition on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach improves process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, addressing the key challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Pt and CrOx catalysts are crucial, with Pt-based catalysts in UOP's Oleflex process favored for selectivity and durability. Coke formation on Pt catalysts, however, significantly affects performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures can reduce selectivity and stability. Pt1M1 IMA SACs, with isolated Pt1 sites, enhance thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as stable active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The ordered structure prevents Pt and Zn segregation, further enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke. Stable catalysts are crucial, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, keeping Pt1 sites active for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows high conversion with excellent propene selectivity at 600°C without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions to coke, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's large atomic radius preventing diffusion into PtGa. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity and coke formation, leading to deactivation. Sn addition boosts propylene selectivity. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, improving selectivity and stability, and inhibiting side reactions. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles enhance propylene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% selectivity. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations are under construction, reflecting the industry's shift to shale-based ethane for steam cracking. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained through temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts that enhance the DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, suggesting strategies for catalyst regeneration and coke mitigation are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, involving hydrogen removal from propane. Catalyst choice is critical, with traditional Pt and Cr options being costly or hazardous. Recent studies highlight iron-based catalysts as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. High temperatures exacerbate this, causing poor stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts, adding Sn for regeneration, promoting CeO2 for oxygen storage, using dopants to prevent sintering, and employing coreshell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports, like TiOx, modifies catalytic performance by hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production utilizes ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds in propane, offering high activity and durability. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites make it superior to Pt-based catalysts, mitigating coke formation and enabling in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity. Industrial applications include efficient propene production for the chemical industry, enhanced by ZrO2's resistance to coke formation, reducing costs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) post 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor; coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation sans added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, although this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, critical for propene production, employs PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions: atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. Coke reduces selectivity and activity, but Pt/Cu SAAs offer regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles, maintaining high performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, with high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoter elements like Sn mitigate coke formation, extending catalyst lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and lower-temperature PDH methods to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an economical route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges with significant deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration. (Quotes 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 16)", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are the primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial PDH processes due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly affects performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn. The size of the Pt catalyst and the use of supports also influence coke formation. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn IMAs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance thermal stability and selectivity by isolating active sites and preventing coke formation. These ensembles inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke side reactions, promoting desorption of surface-bound propylene and maintaining catalyst stability. Structural ordering in [PtZn4] also prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, crucial for efficient propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industrial PDH. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering under high temperatures necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a viable solution. The stable (111) surface of PtGa has isolated and threefold Pt and Ga sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 sites active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and inhibits further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating improved stability and selectivity. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking, confirmed by a control experiment. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially platinum-based, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures above 600°C, necessary for economic conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing Pt catalysts, is pivotal for propene production, with Sn enhancing selectivity. The primary challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance propylene desorption, and doped graphene to optimize the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes are pivotal but susceptible to rapid deactivation by coke formation, a mechanism requiring further study. Optimizing reaction conditions to minimize dehydrogenation cycles and designing efficient catalysts can enhance propene output. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K, and using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, can reduce coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, mitigating catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can lessen its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations, driven by abundant cheap natural gas liquids like ethane, shifts the petrochemical industry towards more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. The dehydrogenation step, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, is endothermic, requiring continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst, active for 2-3 years, maintains dehydrogenation activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, necessitating strategies for mitigation and improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Challenges include cracking and excessive coke formation, reducing selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance PDH while minimizing side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include understanding its role as a promoter for selectivity improvement by deactivating sites active for cracking. The selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with large Pt particles favoring dehydrogenation over cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though their cost and toxicity prompt interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but employing phosphate to suppress coking and utilizing regeneration techniques can mitigate this issue, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Pt catalysts deactivate due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to prevent deep dehydrogenation and coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' geometry and electronics, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher activation energies for dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity. Selecting appropriate supports, like TiOx, can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) efficiently produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts, offering high propene selectivity. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, minimizing coke formation and maximizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; using ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry, with strategies to combat coke formation including employing ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, preventing coke buildup from 0.5 to 2.8wt%. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with halides like chlorine, despite negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions and improving catalyst composition. Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key factors include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst's initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which promotes side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by enabling lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. (Quote 4) PDH is considered a promising alternative for propene production. (Quote 7) The endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction necessitates high temperatures, resulting in coke deposition. (Quote 9) Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is significant. (Quote 10) Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity and thermal stability. (Quote 11) However, significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation constrains their performance. (Quote 16) Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters such as Cu, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a highly endothermic process above 500°C, is a leading industrial method for large-scale propene production. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial CH cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This mechanism effectively prevents coke side reactions, improving catalyst performance by prohibiting coke formation and maintaining structural integrity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for adequate yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a major industrial challenge. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand, yet high temperatures cause severe deactivation. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to coke formation. Isolating Pt atoms enhances selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites while leaving single-atom Pt intact, demonstrates outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. This innovation stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, improving stability and selectivity, and enables long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity for years. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional methods' limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn addition for enhanced propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting higher activity and resistance to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation is essential for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity and its deactivating effect can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane-propylene price differences. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is favored over traditional processes due to high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling oil reserves, and rising prices. The PDH market is expanding with new installations. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures is a challenge, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and amounts. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with small Pt particles favoring CC bond activation (cracking) and large particles favoring CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) pivotal for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, hinders efficiency. Rational Pt surface structure construction enhances selectivity and coke control. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate Pt-propylene interaction, causing coke formation and poor catalyst stability (60-80% propylene selectivity). Strategies to boost selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for stability, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, offering lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing ZrO2's C-H bond cleavage efficiency, offers an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, crucial for chemical industry applications. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, whereas ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is pivotal for propene production. Reaction conditions, such as high temperatures and specific gas ratios, are critical. Catalysts, particularly Pt/Cu SAA, offer high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge on Pt-based catalysts. Excellent regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles enhances process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures (550-700°C) that promote side reactions and coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts. Coke formation degrades catalysts, but using Sn promoters can mitigate this issue, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins. However, it's an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propene selectivity and anti-coking properties is essential. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke formation and lower propene selectivity. Adding Cu to Pt catalysts can mitigate coke formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt-based catalysts featuring prominently in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with other metals like Sn, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge selectivity and catalyst stability. Ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy (IMA) offers isolated Pt1 sites and enhanced thermal stability, addressing these issues. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, modified with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active, improves selectivity and stability in PDH. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, PtGaPb/SiO2, demonstrates high conversion and selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, with single-atom Pt catalyzing CH activation while inhibiting coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction uses heat from catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting efficiency. CCR technology, introduced in the 1970s, stabilizes noble metal catalysts, enabling large-scale, high-pressure production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved stability against fouling, and controlled catalyst support acidity, crucial for maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions and designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane, with dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, with activity maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply gaps, facing challenges of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research targets enhancing catalysts for higher DHP reaction rates and minimized side reactions, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, influenced by Pt particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure affecting efficiency. Pt and Cr are typical catalysts, though research explores alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, impacting efficiency. Rational Pt surface structure design enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, challenging selectivity. High temperatures exacerbate this, affecting catalyst stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, adding Sn for regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility and reduce coke, and selecting supports like TiOx to modify electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing C-H bond activation, is significantly influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through lattice oxygen removal by propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. PDH, conducted at high temperatures, is crucial for the chemical industry, producing propene for plastics, detergents, and other chemicals. Alternative catalysts like ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques can remove coke deposits, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor boosts coke content to 2.8wt%, diminishing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation treatment, maintaining an atomically dispersed state without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with air regeneration in the presence of chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key considerations include reaction conditions and catalyst types, affecting selectivity and activity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs effectively mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability, as evidenced by high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under atmospheric pressure at 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn extend catalyst lifetime by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, struggle with coke and low propene selectivity. Adding Cu suppresses coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity. Strategies like Cu addition improve PDH efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex favored for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, and controlling catalyst size. Computational simulations offer insights into the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces high-temperature challenges, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Stable SACs, notably Pt1M1 IMA, are crucial, with [PtZn4] ensembles acting as active sites. These promote initial C-H cleavage, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. They also improve propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and ensuring structural ordering of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is promising. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites while leaving Pt1 intact, achieves high selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours, minimizing coke formation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production in PDH at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, necessary for economic conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Platinum-based noble metal catalysts, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity over years. PDH units produce light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, with Pt-Sn catalysts enhancing selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts, like Pt on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity, improve performance. Doped graphene strategies tune the electronic structure of Pt atoms, predicting that single Pt atoms with a positive charge are more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, commercial since the 1980s, is pivotal for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation is also crucial. The rate of coke formation is highly dependent on operating conditions, and hydrogen can decrease the rate of coke formation and the deactivating effect of the coke formed.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is profitable due to favorable market conditions and operates as an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding propene. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, with a global increase in PDH installations. The shift from naphtha to ethane as feedstock is driven by their availability and cost. The reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's life span of 2-3 years maintained by temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a regeneration cycle every 5-10 days. Coke formation at high temperatures impacts catalyst performance, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    