Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing propylene supply shortfalls. Challenges include long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, indicating its potential role as a promoter. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, with Pt and Cr as common catalysts. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, influence efficiency and selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques are crucial to mitigate coking and maintain catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* on small Pt clusters leads to catalyst deactivation, a critical issue. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation, weakening propylene adsorption strength to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using ZrO2 as a catalyst offers superior durability and high activity, with coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitating propane's homolytic C-H bond cleavage. Optimal crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and mitigates coke formation, a critical issue for Pt-based catalysts. Strategies to reduce coke formation include designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes, allowing in situ regeneration and minimizing costs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor utilization, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with increased coke content (0.5 to 2.8wt%) and reduced conversion without water vapor. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine, as demonstrated by the successful regeneration of Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to the sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production. Key process variables include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts such as PtSn, PtZn, and notably Pt/Cu SAAs, which mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, are critical for achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, addressing the challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production at high temperatures, faces challenges from side reactions and coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts. Enhancing Pt with Sn extends catalyst lifetime, while research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propene production method, converting propane into olefins at high temperatures. This endothermic reaction, however, leads to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of Cu promoters, which suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns, highlighting the need for alternative solutions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial method for large-scale propene production, typically operating at temperatures over 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. These approaches are crucial for enhancing the efficiency and longevity of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites, while [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption and prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, ensuring catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to coke formation and catalyst deactivation, necessitating stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn further improves propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, offers a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and selectivity in PDH at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially with CCR technology introduced in the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional techniques. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, require Sn addition to enhance propylene selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and increase propylene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles notably boost selectivity to 90% by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation, thus addressing the critical issue of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling hydrogen presence to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen decreases coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, crucial for catalyst longevity. Studies confirm hydrogen's role in reducing coke formation and deactivation by suppressing precursors, highlighting its importance in maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, driving global PDH expansion. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's move towards economical feedstocks. PDH's endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting coke formation, a critical challenge affecting catalyst performance. PtSn-based catalysts operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year lifespan, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation and catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days ensure an uninterrupted product stream, addressing the need for efficient conversion technologies amidst dwindling petroleum reserves and rising oil prices.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, which reduce selectivity and cause deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance the DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, suggesting strategies for catalyst regeneration and coke mitigation are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propene production, involving propane's hydrogen removal, with efficiency influenced by temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr catalysts, though common, are costly and toxic, prompting research into alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical issue. Optimizing Pt surface structure and weakening propylene adsorption strength can suppress deep dehydrogenation. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants improve dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized with ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhances propene selectivity, and regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction. ZrO2's higher activity, durability, and ability to remove carbon deposits make it cost-effective for the CATOFIN process. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2 and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration. This underscores the importance of reaction conditions and catalyst types in PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research hotspot due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys is vital for propene production, with reaction conditions like temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio being critical. Catalyst types influence selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably mitigating coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, and offering high stability and anti-coke capability at high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate catalysts, restoring their activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst sintering due to side reactions and coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, see enhanced lifetime with Sn addition. Co-based catalysts show promise for commercialization. To improve process efficiency and catalyst regeneration, strategies to mitigate coke formation are essential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. It's economically competitive, especially with natural gas as a resource. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts notably used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation significantly hinders Pt catalyst performance, but strategies like co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size can mitigate its impact.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage, inhibiting over-dehydrogenation, and improving desorption, effectively preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, thus boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures causing catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to deactivation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn improves stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts in intermetallic compounds like PtGa offer thermal stability. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propylene selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for optimized noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism still unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions, enhancing propene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity like SBA-15, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, addressing high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. The system operates continuously, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency, necessitating strategies for mitigation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, addressing supply gaps, but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to enhance catalysts, boosting DHP reaction rates while minimizing side reactions to extend catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with temperature and pressure as critical reaction conditions. Common catalysts like Pt and Cr face issues of cost and toxicity, leading to exploration of alternatives such as iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, with regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, such as alloying with metals and selecting appropriate supports, enhances performance. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution during regeneration, enhancing stability. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and facilitate carbon migration from active sites. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. Partially reduced TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is optimized by ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Its activity, controlled by crystallite size, is crucial for industrial propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, versus 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. Catalyst types affect selectivity and activity, with Pt/Cu single atom alloys notably reducing coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, and achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face significant deactivation due to coke formation and exhibit low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts in commercial Oleflex processes. Pt catalysts are valued for selectivity and durability, but coke formation hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, atomically ordered Pt1Zn1 catalysts enhance thermal stability and selectivity by promoting C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption, ensuring Pt and Zn atom segregation through structural ordering, which mitigates coke formation and improves catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. PtGaPb catalysts, with isolated Pt atoms, show outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without deactivation. This demonstrates long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production. The high propene selectivity of isolated Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions benefit from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts require frequent regeneration due to coke formation. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, employing Pt catalysts for high activity and Sn for selectivity, is crucial for propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Mitigation strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, ensures the most positively charged single Pt atom is active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production, with Pt-based catalysts being pivotal in Oleflex processes. However, these catalysts rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. To mitigate coke formation, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen is effective in suppressing coke precursor formation, thus reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but it cannot remove already formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and influenced by operating conditions, as evidenced by studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences. It yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and is expanding globally. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures reduces efficiency, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation, significantly influenced by Pt particle size, causes higher coke content on smaller particles. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for performance. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, leading to interest in alternatives like iron. A significant challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst activity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate (Quote [1]). Coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, leads to catalyst deactivation (Quote [3]), impacting efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke (Quote [7]). Strategies to mitigate coke include modifying Pt catalyst structure and composition, adding promoters like Sn (Quote [10]) and CeO2 (Quote [17]) to enhance stability and oxygen mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and employing coreshell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency (Quotes [9], [13], [14]). High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability (Quote [7]). Selecting appropriate supports and modifying electronic structures can weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity and stability (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing ZrO2 as a superior catalyst over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx, due to its enhanced C-H bond cleavage and adjustable crystallite size for improved propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, regenerating in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation. Its higher activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts reduce costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without chlorine, improving regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, operates under specific conditions and uses PtM alloy catalysts. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts, with single platinum atoms on copper nanoparticles, enhance propene selectivity and stability, even at high temperatures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces selectivity and activity, impacting efficiency. Strategies like employing Pt/Cu SAA catalysts and regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles mitigate coke formation, restoring initial activity and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based, aims to improve commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are essential for enhancing PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting propane to olefins with economic competitiveness due to natural gas availability. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies include adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium toxicity, emphasizing the need for alternative solutions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propylene using metal and oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide. Pt-based catalysts, excelling in selectivity and durability, are pivotal in UOP's Oleflex process but face a significant challenge from coke formation, which hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties, all aimed at controlling coke formation and enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn intermetallic alloy catalysts are pivotal, enhancing efficiency by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in these catalysts promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This mechanism boosts PDH efficiency by avoiding coke side reactions and enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, facing challenges at high temperatures due to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but lead to side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhance propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a promising solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains active, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. This combination stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's size preventing its diffusion into PtGa, leading to long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH, pivotal for propene production, employs Pt as a key catalyst, with Sn enhancing selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Notably, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles attain 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce cycles and enhance propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With global PDH expansion, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, ensuring the process remains efficient and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, bridging supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research aims to develop catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, with higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking reactions, whereas larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles suggest modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, with temperature and pressure as key factors. Pt and Cr catalysts, though effective, are costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which can be mitigated by using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalyst structure for improved selectivity and coke control, adding Sn for better regeneration, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and TiOx to increase electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently activates propane's C-H bond, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhanced by adjusting crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds, mitigating coke formation by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to minimize coke formation and maximize efficiency include using ZrO2 for its higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content rises to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without added chlorine, improving regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is vital for propene production. Key reaction conditions include high temperatures and atmospheric pressure, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAA notably reduces coke formation, improving propylene desorption and achieving 90% propene selectivity with excellent stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, tackling efficiency issues caused by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts with Sn promoters mitigate coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a critical chemical in the petrochemical industry (Quote 4). However, the endothermic nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and selectivity issues (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as the addition of Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for industrial propene production. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial processes, face a significant challenge from coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the need for further improvements in Pt catalysts to address coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates propene desorption, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn atom segregation, thus improving catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts for industrial application. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global demand. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Alloying Pt with Sn and using single-atom Pt catalysts are strategies, but thermal stability at high temperatures is a challenge. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the Pt1 site is crucial for PDH while the Pt3 site promotes undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. Heat for the endothermic reaction is sourced from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures, while enhancing conversion, also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. To mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with continuous regeneration maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-Sn catalysts boost propylene selectivity, yet coke formation on Pt-based catalysts remains a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to address this include using atomically dispersed Pt for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can further refine the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less susceptible to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce cycles, enhancing productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, crucial for decreasing coke formation rate but ineffective in removing formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and highly dependent on conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is favored by market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene, yielding pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new installations are expanding globally. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane is driven by high-energy demands, selectivity issues, dwindling reserves, and oil prices. PDH uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to combat coke formation at high temperatures, a critical challenge impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation (Quote [2], [3]). Research aims to enhance catalysts for increased DHP reaction rates and minimized side reactions, extending catalyst life (Quote [5]). Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates (Quote [6], [7]). Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content (Quote [8], [9]). Comprehensive analysis reveals activity, selectivity, and coking (Quote [10]). Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation) (Quote [11], [12]). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations (Quote [13]). Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites (Quote [14]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently transforms propane to propene, with optimal performance hinging on temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are primary catalysts, though interest shifts to earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing activity and selectivity. Mitigation strategies include employing promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from ZrO2 catalysts, which, with adjustable crystallite size, enhance propene selectivity and mitigate coke formation, a critical issue for Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction is key. Combining ZrO2 with Pt boosts activity and reduces coke, improving the CATOFIN process. Strategies include optimizing crystallite sizes and using oxidative regeneration techniques to maximize propene selectivity and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine, as demonstrated by the regeneration process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation can transform the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to the sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys is crucial for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst types, like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, affecting selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs notably reduce coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges at high temperatures due to side reactions and coke deposition, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-Sn catalysts effectively mitigate coking, extending catalyst lifetime, while Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation show promise for enhancing efficiency and reducing energy consumption at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity in Oleflex commercial PDH, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties, as highlighted in industry practices and research findings.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, enhancing selectivity and stability by promoting propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. The electron-rich Pt1 site in these ensembles prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, ensuring catalyst stability and improving selectivity by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industry, with severe deactivation necessitating continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but can be improved by isolating Pt atoms. Alloying with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures, but using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated Pt1 and Ga sites, is a solution. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable them while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, stabilizing single-atom-like isolated Pt and minimizing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, essential for economic conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. To mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, struggle with selectivity, improved by Sn addition. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for optimized noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases the deactivating effect of coke, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions, as evidenced by studies on Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts. Alkali metals like Li, Na, and K help reduce coking rates by providing excess mobile electrons to the Pt catalyst. Using supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, also reduces coke formation by weakening propylene adsorption and suppressing its dehydrogenation or polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable, favored by the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields polymer-quality olefins, driving global PDH expansion. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the process's growing demand. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures conducive to olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in more coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under optimal temperature and pressure conditions, utilizing Pt and Cr catalysts, though research also explores earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. To mitigate coking, strategies include the use of phosphate and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to improve stability, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate C-H bond cleavage, with activity controlled by crystallite size, which mitigates coke formation. Optimal crystallite size design reduces coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity, allowing in situ regeneration and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Water vapor, enabled by CeO2's redox properties, significantly reduces coke deposition. PtSn catalysts with water vapor co-feeding exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation, eliminating chlorine's need.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and halide like chlorine, although chlorine has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs PtM alloy catalysts, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), which enhance propene selectivity to 90% and stability over 120 hours, effectively addressing coke formation. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, mitigating coke buildup.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process converting propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for efficiency. Pt-based catalysts are prone to coke formation at these temperatures, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, operates at temperatures exceeding 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process, as per quote 4. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air, as stated in quote 5. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance, as highlighted in quote 7. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, as mentioned in quote 11, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, as noted in quote 12, and modifying support properties. Computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms, as per quote 17.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, enhancing propane C-H cleavage and propene selectivity. This structure prevents coke formation and further dehydrogenation, addressing high reaction temperature challenges by inhibiting coke side reactions and promoting propene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst (PtGaPb) shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Heat for endothermic reactions is sourced from catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt catalysts, enhanced with Sn for selectivity, face a significant challenge: coke formation leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts for optimized Pt usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers a promising approach to prevent deep dehydrogenation, thereby mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen is noted for suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke. The rate of coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen playing a crucial role in controlling its rate.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the US highlights the industry's search for more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, as evidenced by the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where propane is dehydrogenated. Critical factors include reaction conditions and catalyst choice; traditional Pt and Cr catalysts have drawbacks, while iron-based alternatives are promising. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, impacting activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, with regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, affecting efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, especially under high temperatures, reducing selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "ZrO2 catalysts optimize PDH for propene production by enhancing selectivity and mitigating coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, crucial for the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and oxidative regeneration to remove coke deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated through oxidation without chlorine, mitigating coke formation and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is pivotal for propene production under atmospheric pressure at 520°C. Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propylene desorption, effectively mitigating coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the critical issue of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, operates at high temperatures, which can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts enhances their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting propane into olefins at competitive costs due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can enhance stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving catalyst efficiency. [4] [7] [9] [10] [16]", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene, employing Pt and Cr oxide catalysts. Pt, favored for selectivity and durability in Oleflex, faces the challenge of coke formation, which degrades performance. Strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, and modifying support properties. Oleflex regeneration combats coke via chlorine-air combustion. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity and preventing further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This structure inhibits coke formation and improves catalyst stability, ensuring efficient propylene desorption and preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are crucial for industry. PtGaPb catalysts, featuring isolated Pt atoms, demonstrate exceptional performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting further coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, offering high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. This strategy minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability and continuous, selective propene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, accelerating side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn for selectivity, face a critical challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels, which suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable, driven by favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the industry's shift towards more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under controlled conditions, with continuous operation for uninterrupted product flow. Catalyst regeneration is crucial due to the endothermic nature of the reaction and the formation of coke at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking to C1, C2, or coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial method for propene production, with reaction conditions and catalyst choice being pivotal. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but have drawbacks; iron-based catalysts are emerging as promising alternatives. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which hinders efficiency. Strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration can mitigate this issue, enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation from coke formation, particularly on small clusters due to higher surface area. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of Pt surface structure for improved selectivity and control over coke. Addition of Sn aids Pt redistribution during regeneration, enhancing stability. Promoting CeO2 boosts oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration from active sites. Coreshell Pt catalysts offer enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Modifying Pt catalyst structures increases propene selectivity under high-temperature conditions, where strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation and poor stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity due to optimal crystallite size. ZrO2 offers superior durability over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, making it cost-effective for industrial PDH applications. High temperatures promote dehydrogenation, with ZrO2 showing high activity and selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing for catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques address coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, causing sintering and coke formation on catalysts. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts show minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, highlighting the effectiveness of ceria's redox properties and water vapor in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, which can be transformed into an exothermic process by oxidizing hydrogen to water, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. PtSn clusters on CeO2 are highly selective for PDH, and the deactivated catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a key industrial process for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene desorption and selectivity, mitigating coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity and selectivity. Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles addresses coke formation, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, which can cause side reactions and coke deposition, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, especially when promoted with Sn, reduce deactivation from coking, enhancing lifetime. Novel catalysts and microwave irradiation are promising strategies to lower energy consumption, enabling PDH at lower temperatures, thus mitigating coke formation and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting propane into value-added olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas resources. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoters like Cu, which can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are crucial. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex process, face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, preserving catalyst efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures causes catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, necessitating stable catalysts without deactivation. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propylene demand, but severe deactivation requires continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high conversion with excellent propylene selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts with Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue causing deactivation. Strategies include single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and enhance properties, achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene adjusts the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 80s, is vital for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and leveraging hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, though it can't remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable, on-purpose method for producing pure propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is expanding due to favorable propane-to-propylene price ratios. Dehydrogenation uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by adjusting temperatures. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are essential due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional methods. However, cracking and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts challenge selectivity and activity. Smaller Pt particles, while more active, decrease selectivity and increase coke formation, impacting catalyst longevity. Research efforts aim to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, essential for prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity to propene by deactivating sites prone to cracking. Strategies focus on optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to favor CH bond activation for dehydrogenation over CC bond activation for cracking, as evidenced by studies showing significant differences in coke content between different particle sizes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene under specific temperature and pressure conditions, with Pt and Cr serving as common catalysts. Earth-abundant alternatives are explored due to cost and toxicity concerns. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Mitigation strategies include phosphate use and regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. These modifications aim to weaken propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using ZrO2 as a catalyst, efficiently produces propene by cleaving C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and reduces coke formation, a significant issue for Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2's in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction makes it a durable, cost-effective choice for industrial processes like CATOFIN. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke, maximizing propene selectivity, and ZrO2's higher activity and ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits ensure its superiority over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without it, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during PDH breaks equilibrium limitations, transforming the process to exothermic. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion, while introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) using PtM alloy catalysts, notably Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs), is critical for propene production. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate exceptional performance, achieving high propene selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which reduces efficiency. However, Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation and maintaining selectivity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, effectively addressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, which can cause coke formation on catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, particularly when promoted with Sn, exhibit enhanced longevity by minimizing coking. Research suggests Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation could offer energy-efficient PDH at lower temperatures, promising for future commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). The endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is crucial for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability in commercial processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, promoting propane C-H cleavage and enhancing selectivity. These ensembles inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, crucial for preventing side reactions. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] boosts thermal stability, prevents coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures risks catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical industry challenge. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand, but severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable (111) surface displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping the Pt1 site active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks the threefold Pt site, shows outstanding catalytic performance at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first two CH activations while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, offering an alternative to traditional routes. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promotion for enhanced propene selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, a mechanism not fully understood. Strategies to enhance PDH efficiency include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke, as shown by Larsson et al. Understanding coke formation aids in designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke, crucial for enhancing propene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is favored for propene production due to market conditions and its exclusive olefin yield. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane for efficiency, with dozens of new PDH plants under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for 2-3 years with temperature adjustments to maintain activity. Catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days is crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by dehydrogenating propane, with optimal efficiency and selectivity influenced by temperature and pressure. Common catalysts are Pt and Cr, but research suggests iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing resistant catalysts. Thermal treatment under an oxidizing atmosphere effectively regenerates catalysts by removing coke.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, and using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates C-H bonds in propane, with ZrO2, featuring unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaving these bonds. Its activity, adjustable by crystallite size, maximizes propene selectivity, making it an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in industrial processes. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity. Strategies include using ZrO2 as an alternative catalyst and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, requires high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting sharply with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation can transform the process to exothermic and break equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH using PtM alloys, notably PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is pivotal for propene production under optimal conditions. Pt/Cu SAAs demonstrate 90% propene selectivity and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs enhance propylene desorption and prevent further dehydrogenation, mitigating coke formation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3 diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for industrial propene production (Quote [2]). Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide (Quote [3]), are used, with Pt-based catalysts in the Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air (Quote [5]). Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability (Quote [6]), but coke formation significantly degrades performance (Quote [7]). Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen (Quote [11]), alloying Pt with metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs and [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, enhancing thermal stability and selectivity. These ensembles promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, and facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, thus improving overall stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are critical for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances selectivity and stability. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. High propylene selectivity minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. To mitigate coke formation on Pt catalysts, strategies include using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals, ensuring high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Pt/Sn catalysts face a coke formation challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles mitigate this, boosting propene selectivity by 90% and reducing deep dehydrogenation. Doped graphene further enhances activity and reduces coke formation by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess electrons to Pt, reducing coking rates, and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to weaken propylene adsorption. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins of polymer-quality purity, optimized for industrial use. The petrochemical industry's shift to shale-based ethane from oil-based naphtha is evident with numerous PDH installations under construction, addressing high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn-based catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. Operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the continuous system regenerates catalysts every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency, necessitating strategies for mitigation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    