Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propene supply gaps, facing challenges of cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research targets enhancing DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive systems provide insights into activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites, as observed in the comparison between Pt-SBA-15-DP and Pt-SBA-15-IMP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt catalysts follow the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency, especially on small Pt clusters with larger surface areas. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke and lowering propylene selectivity. High temperatures enhance Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting suitable supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) produces propene, with ZrO2 emerging as an efficient catalyst due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites. Its adjustable crystallite size enhances propene selectivity. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to reduce coke include using ZrO2 for its higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without needing chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, produces propene efficiently at 520°C under atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) notably enhance propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours, mitigating coke formation that reduces efficiency. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate catalyst activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, enhancing lifetime. Research explores Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for improved efficiency and reduced energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propene production, converting propane into olefins economically. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity. Adding Cu as a promoter to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke formation and enhance stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial method for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures over 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are employed, with Pt-based catalysts featuring prominently in UOP's Oleflex commercial process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. Computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, are critical, enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, and facilitate its desorption, preventing coke formation and maintaining catalyst integrity through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH that resist deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting the global demand for propylene. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where active metals are atomically dispersed and isolated, are effective but face thermal stability challenges at high temperatures. A solution is to use single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. The PtGa catalyst has a stable surface with isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, so modifying to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 available improves PDH selectivity and stability. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity. Industrial PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke on Pt catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers, fouling resistance, and acidity control, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, employing Pt-based catalysts for their high activity, enhanced by Sn as a promoter to improve selectivity. The primary challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, enhance propylene desorption, and prevent further dehydrogenation. Notably, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieve 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation, effectively mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism needing further understanding. Optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst design can minimize coke formation, enhancing propene productivity. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, or using supports like SBA-15, reduces coking rates. Alkali metals provide mobile electrons to Pt, decreasing coking. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions and its ability to yield pure olefins. The global expansion of PDH installations is driven by the availability of cheap natural gas liquids like ethane, replacing oil-based naphtha. The petrochemical industry seeks more efficient technologies due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, requiring temperature adjustments to maintain activity. The process is continuous, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to combat the challenge of coke formation, which necessitates frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, challenged by hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and deactivates catalysts. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and amounts. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation, with small Pt particles favoring cracking and larger ones promoting dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane under critical temperature and pressure conditions. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but research focuses on safer, earth-abundant iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking involve using phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, while regeneration techniques restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size and shape, alloying with metals, and selecting supports. Sn addition enhances Pt redistribution and catalyst stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type, highlights ZrO2's efficiency due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, offering an industrially relevant, durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications produce propene for the chemical industry, with ZrO2 showing higher activity and durability, allowing cost-effective regeneration through carbon deposit removal.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, crucial for maintaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state, with activity loss not simply correlated to coke amount. Coke on carriers increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong regeneration time is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types, notably PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting side reactions and coke deposition, which can sinter the catalyst. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation by coking, benefit from promoter elements like Sn to reduce coking and extend their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, as highlighted in [Quote 4]. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction, discussed in [Quote 7], necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability, as emphasized in [Quote 9], is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability as contrasted with Cr-based catalysts in [Quote 10], face challenges with coke formation and selectivity, addressed in [Quote 11]. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration, outlined in [Quote 16], include the addition of promoters such as Cu, which can suppress the formation of coke and lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing the stability and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is crucial for propene production. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are key, with Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex, facing coke formation challenges that hinder performance. Strategies include co-feeding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties to control coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs are pivotal, with [PtZn4] ensembles acting as active sites. These sites, featuring geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1, promote initial propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further propylene dehydrogenation, preventing coke formation. This structure enhances selectivity and stability by avoiding coke side reactions and Pt/Zn atom segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts, particularly Pt- or Cr2O3-based, are essential for industry. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but prone to side reactions. Isolating Pt atoms and alloying with inactive metals like Sn can enhance selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with its stable (111) surface, is promising. The Pt3 site is more active for undesired reactions, necessitating modification. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks Pt3 while Pt1 remains active, shows high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions. This modification significantly improves stability and selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven, utilizing catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers, improving fouling resistance, and controlling catalyst acidity, ensuring high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propene selectivity, face deactivation due to coke formation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage, improve surface-bonded propylene desorption, and prevent further dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers a promising solution to reduce deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene output, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation and its deactivating effect but cannot remove formed coke. The rate of coke formation is sensitive to operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. New PDH installations are increasing globally. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is managed by temperature adjustments to maintain activity. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, affecting selectivity and causing deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates and coke content compared to larger particles (21 nm). Research efforts are directed towards developing catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst lifetime. Coke formation can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for cracking reactions. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for maintaining process efficiency and reducing operation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where temperature and pressure are critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; however, using phosphate to suppress coking and employing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, reduces efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Strong propylene adsorption causes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, especially under high temperatures, reducing selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying with metals, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to aid Pt redistribution and stability, CeO2 promoters to enhance oxygen mobility, reducing coke, and dopants to prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports modifies catalytic performance, and TiOx species can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production employs ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering high activity and durability. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with activity tunable by adjusting crystallite size. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke and maximize propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, significantly affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, as evidenced by the reduction in coke content when water vapor is co-fed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, decreasing conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, often employing PtM alloys under controlled conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly enhance propene selectivity and stability, achieving 90% selectivity for over 120 hours at 520°C, while effectively addressing coke formation, a key efficiency challenge. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity, thus improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, requires high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting performance. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts reduces coking, extending lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins, economically competitive due to natural gas exploitation. However, the endothermic nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges like coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial method for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Primary catalysts include platinum and chromium oxide, with Pt-based catalysts notably used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation can degrade performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy with a 1:1 molar ratio boosts selectivity and stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as key active sites, facilitating the initial and secondary C-H cleavage of propane while preventing further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This enhances selectivity and stability by inhibiting coke side reactions and facilitating propylene desorption, thus avoiding coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production faces challenges due to severe catalyst deactivation at high temperatures, primarily from coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active but lead to coke formation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, but the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining single-atom Pt for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high propylene selectivity and stability at 600°C, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting catalyst deactivation. Catalysts evolved to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, like propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, utilizing Pt-based catalysts enhanced with Sn for selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts is a major challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve propylene selectivity by enhancing desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can also tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is a key propene production method. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output, and designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke. Modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals like Li, Na, and K can lower coking rates by supplying mobile electrons. Supports with weak acidity, such as SBA-15, can reduce coke by weakening propylene adsorption. The coking rate is influenced by operating conditions. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate both its formation and deactivating effects.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. Globally, dozens of new PDH installations are under construction. The US shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane is driven by the high availability of cheap natural gas liquids. The petrochemical industry seeks more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures 1-3 bar and temperatures 525-705 C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years. The system operates continuously, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. High temperatures for olefin yields also promote coke formation, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Research targets catalysts that boost DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond sites. Changes in initial selectivity on large Pt particles might be due to site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their costs and hazards, respectively, lead researchers to explore iron-based alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency; however, using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability, CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility to reduce coke, and dopants prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energy and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt enhance catalytic performance and coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) produces propene, influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Its crystallite size controls active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency, but ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, which can lead to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts demonstrate low coke content (<1wt%) when water vapor is co-fed, critical for sustaining conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be effectively regenerated through oxidation treatment, maintaining their atomically dispersed state without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic and breaks equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke deposition, potentially sintering the catalyst. Adding promoter elements like Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research explores efficient catalysts, such as Co-based ones, and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH, reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves. However, high temperatures needed for propene yield promote thermal cracking and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, struggle with coke formation and low propene selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. This approach, as seen with PtCu/Al2O3, inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and cracking towards lighter hydrocarbons, while increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly degrades catalytic performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn, Cu, and Zn, as supported by computational simulations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA catalysts, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, are pivotal. These ensembles, acting as stable active sites, promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing propene selectivity and inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene. This significantly improves selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. Additionally, [PtZn4] ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, enhancing stability by avoiding coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. The Pt1 site in PtGa is described as single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, retaining Pt1 sites for highly selective and stable PDH. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and minimizes coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins like propylene and isobutylene. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity, maintaining high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt/Sn catalysts are favored for their high activity and selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts poses a significant challenge, leading to deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, which enhance selectivity and stability while minimizing noble metal usage. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles and doped graphene have shown effectiveness in enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, resulting in high propylene selectivity and reduced coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15, and employing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions and enhancing propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose technique for producing pure propene, favored by current market conditions. The petrochemical industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, regenerating catalysts every 5-10 days to counteract the detrimental effects of coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve regeneration include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of a solid oxygen carrier or hydrogen-permeable membrane.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a key propene production method, yet faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research efforts are directed at developing catalysts that boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity than larger particles (21 nm), leading to increased coking rates and amounts. Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system offers comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 hinges on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. On large Pt particles, initial C3H6 selectivity decreases, possibly due to Pt site rearrangement over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure affecting efficiency. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, where propyne is crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, leads to catalyst deactivation. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene's strong adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering, and core-shell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. Core-shell catalysts reduce propylene adsorption and increase selectivity. Selecting supports and using dopants like TiOx enhance catalyst stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst is efficient for propene production due to its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites that cleave C-H bonds. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts in industrial processes operating at 550-625°C. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, which is cost-effective in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to further reduce coke include optimal crystallite size design and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, critical for sustaining conversion rates. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, affecting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant advancement. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Optimal conditions include high temperatures and a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu SAAs exhibit high propene selectivity and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, maintaining high selectivity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for high conversion, but this promotes side reactions and coke formation, degrading Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting propane into olefins, favored for its economic viability due to abundant natural gas resources (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress coke and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures exceeding 500°C. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts being employed in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH process. Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance and stability. Coke is formed from intermediates and propene at high temperatures, covering catalysts and blocking active sites. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals like Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the importance of controlling coke formation for improved catalyst efficiency and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, high temperatures challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance thermal stability and efficiency. These ensembles promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. They also prevent coke formation by facilitating the desorption of surface-bound propylene and maintain Pt and Zn atom segregation via structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industrial PDH, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high PDH temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 while keeping Pt1 intact, achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH. PtGaPb/SiO2 demonstrates 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop, showing high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years without shutdowns. PDH produces light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn for selectivity, face deactivation due to coke formation. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene desorption and selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicts enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, is pivotal for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. To optimize reaction conditions and enhance propene productivity, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide mobile electrons to reduce coking, and using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen is shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but it cannot remove formed coke. Understanding coke formation is essential for designing efficient catalysts and reducing dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose method for producing propene, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction, the industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments, with regeneration cycles every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, reducing selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates than larger particles (21 nm). Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, removing hydrogen from propane, with efficiency influenced by temperature and pressure. Common catalysts Pt and Cr face cost and toxicity issues, prompting interest in earth-abundant, non-toxic options like iron. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical challenge. Small Pt clusters have higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing the Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Propylene adsorption strength must be weakened to suppress deep dehydrogenation and cracking. High temperatures intensify Pt-propylene interaction, causing side reactions and coke formation, with 60-80% propylene selectivity and poor stability. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. TiOx can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering higher activity and durability than Pt-based alternatives. ZrO2 facilitates homolytic C-H bond cleavage in alkanes, with its activity controlled by adjusting crystallite size. This makes it industrially relevant and a viable alternative. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to deactivation, but employing ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, removing lattice oxygen. Designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes minimizes coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor co-feeding, significantly reducing coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion rates. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, eliminating the need for added chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and PtCu, is crucial for propene production. Optimal conditions include temperatures around 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu SAAs stand out for their ability to mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs offer high propene formation and low deactivation rates, with catalyst regeneration possible through oxidation-reduction cycles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation due to coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption for lower-temperature PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into olefins. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, struggle with significant coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like the addition of Cu to Pt-based catalysts, as seen in PtCu/Al2O3, can suppress coke formation and the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production. Metal and oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are used, with Pt catalysts in UOP's Oleflex undergoing regeneration via coke combustion. Pt catalysts, despite high selectivity, face coke formation challenges, impacting performance. Strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing Cu and Zn, modifying supports, and controlling Pt size. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs mitigate high reaction temperature issues by providing isolated Pt1 sites with enhanced thermal stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. This structure prevents coke side reactions and promotes desorption of surface-bound propylene, enhancing stability by avoiding coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, while alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and excellent selectivity under harsh conditions, stabilizing single-atom Pt at high temperatures and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion for propene production. The endothermic reaction is heated by the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based, have evolved with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures above 600°C, necessary for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, requiring frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken the platinum-olefin interaction, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, meeting growing demand. Pt, augmented by Sn, excels in propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant hurdle, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation, thus boosting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 1980s, is a key propene production method. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and boost propene output. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to provide mobile electrons and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Coke formation rates are highly dependent on conditions, and hydrogen can suppress precursor formation, reducing deactivation, though it cannot remove formed coke. Studies show coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield specific olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and are expanding with dozens of new installations. The petrochemical industry's shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the search for more economical feedstock. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, with the catalyst lasting 2-3 years and requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. The process is designed for continuous operation, with a cycle every 5-10 days, but high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to maintain efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential for process efficiency. Coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Understanding the role of Pt particle size and coke in selectivity is crucial for optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, crucial for performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives like iron to address cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, with thermal treatment under oxidizing conditions as a regeneration technique to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to catalyst deactivation. Rational Pt surface structure design improves selectivity and controls coke formation. High temperatures enhance propylene interaction with Pt, promoting coke formation. Strategies to enhance selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts' structures, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized by ZrO2's efficiency in cleaving C-H bonds, with its crystallite size controlling active site concentration for enhanced propene selectivity. ZrO2 outperforms Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts in activity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies to minimize coke formation include using ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is endothermic, necessitating high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor co-feeding, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, without chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of commercial use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Coke formation is classified into quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. Coke formed on carriers does not affect catalyst activity but increases pressure drop, which decreases conversion and selectivity. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are crucial for improving PDH technologies. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is pivotal for propene production, with temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio as key factors. Catalyst types significantly impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge posed by coke.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst sintering. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, can be enhanced by adding Sn to increase their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation aims to lower PDH temperatures, reducing energy consumption and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins, bolstered by abundant natural gas reserves. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation on catalysts, causing deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges like significant deactivation from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an industrial process for large-scale propene production, operates at temperatures above 500°C (Quote 2). Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide (Quote 3), are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their selectivity and durability (Quote 4, 6). However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 11), alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. These approaches aim to prevent coke from covering catalysts and blocking active sites, thus improving efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with a molar ratio of Pt/M = 1, enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active site structures, promoting the first and second C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, significantly improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, improving stability by preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propylene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable PDH catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt sites while preserving single-atom Pt, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and selectivity for propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the late 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving fouling stability, and controlling catalyst acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional techniques. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propylene selectivity, face a significant challenge from coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include utilizing single-atom catalysts and Pt dispersed on Cu nanoparticles, which improve propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene can also enhance the activity of supported Pt atoms and reduce deep dehydrogenation, further addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to lower coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen can suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing both coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, as shown by studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins. With global PDH expansion, the industry shifts to cheaper shale-based ethane. The endothermic reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures promote coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production encounters challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and amounts, impacting catalyst lifetime and regeneration costs. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Coke can promote selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites, with particle size significantly influencing coke formation. Smaller particles cause higher coke content, affecting catalyst performance. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation activities. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time, impacting the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for selectivity. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity prompt research into earth-abundant alternatives, like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, affecting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and implementing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* impacts efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure improves selectivity and coke control. Strong propylene adsorption triggers deep dehydrogenation and coke formation. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for regeneration, CeO2 for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell Pt catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and dopants improve catalyst stability and selectivity. TiOx species increase Pt's electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene, influenced by conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, offers high propene selectivity and durability, making it a preferred alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active sites. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders PDH efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for lower coke formation and oxidative regeneration to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, being endothermic, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, which can lead to catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit very low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated by the spent catalyst readily reverting to this state.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts used commercially. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel can improve sintering resistance. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types, like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs, affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is an endothermic process that requires high temperatures, promoting coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to these catalysts reduces coking, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation shows promise for lower-temperature PDH, improving energy efficiency and commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting propane into valuable olefins with economic benefits due to abundant natural gas reserves. However, high reaction temperatures required for propene yield lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This approach inhibits propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and cracking reactions, while increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process above 500°C, is vital for propene production (Quote 2). Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt favored for selectivity and durability in commercial processes (Quote 3, 6). However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly impacts performance (Quote 7). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 11). Computational simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, particularly [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, are pivotal, enhancing selectivity and stability at high temperatures. These ensembles promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, ensuring high thermal stability, improving propylene desorption, and mitigating coke side reactions, thus boosting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, requiring high temperatures for sufficient yields, but this leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation at high temperatures are essential for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, like PtGa, is a solution to thermal stability issues. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, leaving single-atom Pt intact, showing 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance drop. This demonstrates high thermal stability and resistance to sintering, crucial for continuous and highly selective propylene production in PDH at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. The endothermic reaction uses heat from catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, critical for conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt catalysts enhanced by Sn promoters for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts causes deactivation, but strategies like atomically dispersed Pt, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins. The industry is shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, driven by high-energy demands and dwindling petroleum reserves. PDH uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with the catalyst's activity maintained over 2-3 years through temperature adjustments. The system operates continuously, with a cycle of catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is stripped from propane. Critical factors include reaction conditions and catalyst choice, with traditional Pt and Cr catalysts being costly or hazardous. Recent studies suggest earth-abundant, non-toxic iron-based catalysts as viable alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing catalyst regeneration strategies can mitigate this issue.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, employing Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a pivotal intermediate for CC bond cleavage. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Small Pt clusters, with larger surface areas, experience higher coking rates, accelerating deactivation. Optimizing the Pt surface structure is crucial for enhancing selectivity and controlling coke formation. Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High temperatures exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Strategies to improve selectivity include modifying Pt catalysts by controlling NP size, alloying with metals, and selecting appropriate supports. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Selecting suitable supports modifies catalytic performance. TiOx species increase electron density on Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with ZrO2 as a key catalyst. Its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate homolytic C-H bond cleavage, offering a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx in industrial propene production. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled, optimizing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, reducing PDH efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts demonstrate <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, critical for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor escalates coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine, aiding in catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, though this has drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms highly selective PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation, with deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts regenerable by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Only when Pt particles are covered by coke does the catalyst deactivate. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time, with optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helpful.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key factors include temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types significantly influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability, even in high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, requires high temperatures that promote coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, leading to deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, enhancing catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, a key petrochemical, but requires high temperatures that promote coke formation on catalysts, leading to deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, though highly active and stable, struggle with coke formation and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts are effective but are limited by toxicity. PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts mitigate coke formation and suppress lighter hydrocarbon production, enhancing process efficiency and catalyst regeneration. Strategies like adding Cu improve catalyst stability and selectivity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propylene using Pt and Cr oxide catalysts, with Pt favored for selectivity and durability in Oleflex. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other metals, and modifying support properties, as computational simulations reveal deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn IMAs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, enhance efficiency by improving selectivity and stability. These catalysts promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation through a geometry-isolated and electron-rich Pt1 site, facilitating propylene desorption and maintaining stability by structurally ordering Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, and alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. A solution involves single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, where the Ga3 moiety supports isolated Pt1 atoms. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable Pt3 while keeping Pt1 active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3, leaving single-atom Pt intact. Tested in PDH at 600-650°C, PtGaPb/SiO2 showed 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without performance drop. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation, minimizes coke formation, and improves selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions benefit from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversion, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts' efficiency. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum, have evolved with CCR technology since the 1970s, enabling stable activity without reactor shutdowns. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using platinum modifiers, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for meeting growing propene demand, utilizing Pt catalysts with Sn to enhance selectivity. Coke formation, leading to deactivation, is a major challenge. Mitigation strategies include atomically dispersed Pt, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, improving selectivity and stability, and preventing further dehydrogenation and deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene production. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Alkali metals provide excess electrons to Pt, reducing coking, while supports with weak acidity weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity, with a growing global presence. The US petrochemical industry shifts from naphtha to ethane, addressing high-energy demands and low selectivity. Dehydrogenation duration is heat-dependent, using a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. Catalyst lifespan is 2-3 years, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures an uninterrupted product stream. Regeneration every 5-10 days combats activity loss from coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propene production method, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly impacts activity and selectivity: smaller particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Coke formation can improve selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration are crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production uses catalysts like Pt and Cr, with temperature and pressure as critical conditions. Earth-abundant alternatives, such as iron, are explored due to cost and toxicity issues. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major challenge, reducing activity and selectivity. Strategies include using promoters like phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to maintain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity, addition of Sn for Pt redistribution and enhanced stability, and CeO2 promotion for oxygen mobility and coke reduction. Alloying Pt, selecting supports, and using dopants also prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration, enhancing catalyst performance. Coreshell Pt catalysts offer improved efficiency and selectivity, while TiOx interaction with Pt hinders propylene adsorption and facilitates coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalyst type. ZrO2, with its ability to efficiently cleave C-H bonds in propane, offers an industrially relevant alternative to Pt-based catalysts. Its crystallite size can be adjusted to control active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces PDH efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing carbon deposits, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. Industrial PDH applications, such as the CATOFIN process, benefit from ZrO2's higher activity and durability, contributing to cost minimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, risking catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Sintering is a thermally activated process causing Pt nanoparticles to migrate and coalesce. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) boost propene selectivity and stability, effectively managing coke formation, a critical issue that diminishes catalyst efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs exhibit high propene yield and reduced deactivation, with regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production, requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, which also promote side reactions and coke deposition, risking catalyst sintering. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, benefit from promoter elements like Sn, enhancing their lifetime. Co-based catalysts show promise for future commercialization with improved catalytic properties. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst regeneration are critical for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The addition of promoters is crucial for improving the efficiency of PDH processes and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored in the Oleflex commercial process due to their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly hampers catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts, highlighting the complex network of reactions and intermediates leading to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as active sites, are crucial. These electron-rich Pt1 sites in [PtZn4] enhance selectivity and stability by promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation. They also facilitate propylene desorption, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, thus improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation at high temperatures necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhanced by alloying with inactive metals like Sn. Single-atom catalysts face challenges at high temperatures due to aggregation. A solution is single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with its stable (111) surface displaying isolated and threefold Pt sites. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks threefold Pt, keeping single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity for long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom-like isolated Pt at high temperatures, minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. High temperatures above 600°C are necessary for viable conversions but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Platinum-based catalysts with CCR technology enable stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns, producing light olefins at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for enhanced propylene selectivity, face a major challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Mitigation strategies include single-atom catalysts, Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, and doped graphene, which improve selectivity and stability, prohibiting further dehydrogenation and enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized in the 80s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene output, and designing active catalysts with minimized coke. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rate and deactivating effect, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation's structure sensitivity can be mitigated by hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from market conditions that capitalize on the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins optimized for polymer production. The industry is expanding with new PDH installations, driven by the search for more economical feedstock and efficient technologies. The process uses PtSn-based catalysts under specific conditions, but faces the challenge of coke formation, which reduces catalyst efficiency over time. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers, aiming to improve catalyst regeneration and maintain process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital method for propene production, addressing supply shortfalls. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst lifetime. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates and coke selectivity. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals that small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites prone to CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles suggest modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure being critical. Common catalysts Pt and Cr, though effective, are costly and hazardous, leading to research on alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. To mitigate coke, strategies include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and implementing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational design of Pt surface structure, weakening propylene adsorption, and modifying Pt catalysts by controlling size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn enhances catalyst stability by aiding Pt redistribution, while CeO2 promotion boosts oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is enhanced by ZrO2 catalysts with unsaturated Zr sites, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Controlling ZrO2's crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, boosting propene selectivity. In PDH applications, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency issue, but ZrO2 mitigates this through in situ regeneration via propane/propene interaction, reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies to combat coke formation include employing ZrO2 and oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor at 680°C, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, hindering conversion. Spent catalysts can be effectively regenerated through oxidation treatment.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, which can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) significantly boost propene selectivity and stability, effectively tackling coke formation, a major efficiency hurdle. Coke deposition diminishes selectivity and activity, yet Pt/Cu SAAs maintain high propene selectivity (90%) and stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene from propane in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures that can cause coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, impacting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces deactivation, enhancing their lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for PDH at lower temperatures aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, leveraging abundant natural gas reserves for economic viability. However, the endothermic nature of PDH necessitates high temperatures, causing thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking properties is paramount. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, struggle with significant deactivation due to coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like Cu addition to Pt catalysts can suppress coke formation, enhancing stability and selectivity, thus improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propene. Metal (Pt) and oxide (Cr) catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex for their selectivity and durability. However, coke formation significantly impacts performance. Strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs enhance selectivity and stability by improving the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, thanks to the electron-rich and geometry-isolated Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles. This structure prevents further dehydrogenation of propene, inhibiting coke side reactions and improving selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate propene desorption, further enhancing stability by avoiding coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is vital for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, and alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Incorporating single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Modifying PtGa with Pb to selectively block Pt3 sites while keeping Pt1 sites active achieves highly selective and stable PDH. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst, PtGaPb/SiO2, demonstrates 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation and minimizes coke formation, enhancing selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, showcasing long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are demonstrated by its small particle size retention. The stability test at 650°C shows gradual deactivation due to thermal cracking. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizing coke accumulation and enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. Endothermic reactions are heat-driven through catalyst bed regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures, crucial for viable conversions, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably platinum-based, with continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts under high temperatures accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, enhancing stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, have suboptimal selectivity, improved by Sn addition. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, causing deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, which significantly improve surface-bonded propylene desorption and prohibit further dehydrogenation, achieving 90% propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, a mechanism that remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling operating conditions. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect, as shown by studies on PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields pure olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is shifting from naphtha to shale-based ethane due to high energy demands and dwindling oil reserves. The process uses a PtSn catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures favor coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    