Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) function as a method for propene production, and what are the key considerations regarding reaction conditions, catalyst types, and industrial applications? Furthermore, how does coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impact the process efficiency, and what strategies can be implemented to mitigate its formation and improve catalyst regeneration?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production: Process characteristics, catalyst performance, and the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduces selectivity and causes catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and increases in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with efficiency and selectivity influenced by temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking, like using phosphate, and catalyst regeneration techniques are essential for maintaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Coke formation from CH3CC* and C* on small Pt clusters leads to catalyst deactivation, a critical issue. Strategies include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation, weakening propylene adsorption strength to suppress deep dehydrogenation. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, reducing propylene selectivity to 60-80%. Enhancing Pt-based catalysts through size and shape control, alloying, and support selection can increase propylene selectivity. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for better stability, while CeO2 promotes oxygen mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting suitable supports and using dopants like TiOx can further enhance catalyst performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from ZrO2's superior catalytic properties, offering durability and high activity compared to Pt-based alternatives. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate propane's homolytic C-H bond cleavage, with optimal performance linked to controlled crystallite size. This mitigates coke formation, a critical issue for Pt-based catalysts, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction in the CATOFIN process and minimizing costs. Strategies to further reduce coke formation include designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes for enhanced propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor utilization, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting sharply with increased coke content (0.5 to 2.8wt%) and reduced conversion without water vapor. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Key factors are temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalysts like PtSn, PtZn, and Pt/Cu SAAs affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving high selectivity and stability. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production at 550-700°C, faces challenges from side reactions and coke deposition, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Enhancing Pt with Sn extends catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH shows promise for future commercialization and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting propane into olefins. High temperatures required for the endothermic reaction lead to thermal cracking and coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their activity and stability, face issues with coke formation and low selectivity. Adding Cu promoters mitigates coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key industrial route for large-scale propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are used, with Pt-based catalysts favored in commercial processes like Oleflex for their high selectivity and durability. However, coke formation during PDH significantly impacts catalytic performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Understanding and controlling these factors is crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs enhance thermal stability by dispersing active sites, while [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, thus improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate propylene desorption, prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, ensuring catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are essential for industrial applications. PtPt ensembles are active for over-dehydrogenation, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves high conversion and selectivity in PDH at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to outstanding catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction is heat-assisted by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially with CCR technology introduced in the 1970s, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins at high selectivities. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, crucial for maintaining efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, necessitate Sn addition to enhance propylene selectivity. A significant challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts minimize noble metal usage and boost propylene selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles notably increase selectivity to 90% by promoting desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, improving activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation is crucial for optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and controlling hydrogen presence to suppress coke precursor formation. Hydrogen can decrease coke formation rates but cannot remove formed coke, highlighting its role in catalyst longevity. Studies suggest that hydrogen can reduce the rate of coke formation and catalyst deactivation by suppressing coke precursor formation, but it cannot remove the coke that has already been formed on the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method, benefiting from the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields high-purity olefins, driving global PDH expansion. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US highlights the industry's move towards economical feedstocks. PDH's endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting coke formation, a critical challenge affecting catalyst performance. PtSn-based catalysts operate at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with a 2-3 year lifespan, maintained by temperature adjustments. Continuous operation and catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days ensure an uninterrupted product stream, addressing the need for efficient conversion technologies amidst dwindling petroleum reserves and rising oil prices.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method facing challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, reducing selectivity and causing deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles are more active but less selective, leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles causing higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system provides comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or crack further. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method involving propane's hydrogen removal. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by temperature and pressure. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, leading to exploration of alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation, due to CH3CC* and C* formation leading to coke, is a critical issue. Optimizing Pt surface structure and weakening propylene adsorption strength can suppress deep dehydrogenation. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and selecting appropriate supports. Dopants improve dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell catalysts offer improved performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized with ZrO2, which efficiently cleaves C-H bonds and offers an alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's active site concentration can be controlled to enhance propene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability, along with its ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits, makes it a cost-effective choice for the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit <1wt% coke content after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, compared to 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can revert to an atomically dispersed state post-oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration. This highlights the critical role of reaction conditions and catalyst types in PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research hotspot due to issues like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine, although this has negative effects. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions like temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio are pivotal. Catalyst types affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and selectivity, with high stability and anti-coke capability at high temperatures. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate catalysts, restoring activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene at high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke deposition that can sinter catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking, benefit from Sn addition, enhancing their lifetime. Co-based catalysts show potential for commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are essential for improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins. It's economically competitive, especially with natural gas as a resource. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of PDH requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, known for high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature requiring temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide are key catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts notably used in UOP's Oleflex process, where regeneration involves coke combustion with chlorine-air. Coke formation significantly hinders Pt catalyst performance, but strategies like co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size can mitigate its impact. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMAs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs, enhance selectivity and stability by promoting C-H cleavage, inhibiting further dehydrogenation, and improving desorption, effectively preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, thus boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Pt- and Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts face thermal stability issues. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates high conversion with excellent propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. This achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but accelerate side reactions and coke formation, impacting Pt-based catalysts. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers, improved fouling resistance, and controlled catalyst acidity, maintaining high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, overcoming traditional method limitations. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, need Sn addition for enhanced propylene selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant issue, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and preventing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity, and designing efficient catalysts. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports with weak acidity like SBA-15, and utilizing hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing coke formation rates and catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored method for propene production, benefiting from current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies yield exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry shifts from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane, addressing high-energy demands and low selectivity. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn catalysts lasting 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C. The system operates continuously, with regenerated catalysts completing cycles every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency, necessitating strategies like selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH addresses propylene supply gaps by converting propane to propene, but faces challenges like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates and minimize side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals activity, selectivity, and coking in a single experiment. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or crack further, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method where hydrogen is removed from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but their cost and toxicity lead to exploring alternatives like iron-based materials. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing coking-resistant catalysts, with regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C* leads to cracking. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include rational Pt surface structure design for improved selectivity and controlled coke formation. Modifying Pt catalysts' geometrical and electronic structures, such as alloying with metals and selecting appropriate supports, enhances performance. Sn addition aids Pt redistribution during regeneration, enhancing stability. Promoters like CeO2 increase oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition. Dopants promote Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, suppress side reactions, and facilitate carbon migration from active sites. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. Suitable supports modify catalytic performance. Partially reduced TiOx species can transfer electrons to Pt, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, utilizing C-H bond activation, is significantly influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions. ZrO2, with its coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds in alkanes, offering an industrially relevant and durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. Its activity is controlled by crystallite size, crucial for propene production in the chemical industry. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; strategies to mitigate this include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation and maximize propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with increased coke content (0.5 to 2.8wt%) and conversion drop without it. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, addressing the challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles is a major cause of permanent deactivation, but can be mitigated by adding a second metal to form alloys or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH efficiency by decreasing activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Key factors are temperature, pressure, and propane-to-nitrogen ratio. Catalyst types impact selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and stability under high-temperature conditions. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles regenerate the catalyst, restoring its initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production from propane, faces challenges due to high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing catalyst longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, struggle with significant catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and low propylene selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of promoters like Cu, which can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures above 500°C. Pt and Cr oxide catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts prominent in commercial Oleflex processes. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air. Pt catalysts are valued for their selectivity and durability, but coke formation during PDH can significantly impair performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt size. These measures are crucial for maintaining catalyst efficiency and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, atomically ordered Pt1Zn1 catalysts are pivotal, enhancing thermal stability and selectivity. The [PtZn4] ensembles act as active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation of propylene. This structure prevents coke side reactions, promotes propylene desorption, and ensures Pt and Zn atom segregation through structural ordering, mitigating coke formation and improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts that resist deactivation at high temperatures are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous or short-cycle catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are determined by the balance between propene desorption and undesired side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, particularly PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions, enhancing selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, with isolated and threefold Pt sites, is a solution. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600 °C for 96 hours without performance loss. This demonstrates long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation. The high propene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. Endothermic reactions benefit from heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity over years without reactor shutdowns. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based catalysts require frequent regeneration due to coke formation. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a pivotal method for propene production, utilizing Pt catalysts for their high activity, enhanced by Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, causing deactivation. Strategies to mitigate coke include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts, single-atom catalysts, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles, improving propylene selectivity and stability. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, influenced by propane and propylene price differences, favored by current market conditions. It exclusively yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality, and is expanding globally with new installations. Ethane's availability has driven the petrochemical industry towards more economical feedstocks and efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705°C, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Coke formation at high temperatures reduces efficiency, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a crucial method for propene production, addressing propylene supply gaps. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation on catalysts, affecting selectivity and causing deactivation. Research focuses on developing catalysts to enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, thus extending catalyst lifespan. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation, significantly influenced by Pt particle size, causes higher coke content on smaller particles. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, involving propane's hydrogen removal. Reaction conditions, notably temperature and pressure, are pivotal for efficiency and selectivity. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, prompting interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. A major hurdle is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies include using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity, crucial for maintaining process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH using Pt catalysts for propene production involves the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a critical intermediate. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, initiated by CH3CC* and C*, reduces efficiency. Strong propylene adsorption promotes deep dehydrogenation and cracking, leading to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke include modifying Pt catalyst structure and composition, adding promoters like Sn and CeO2 to enhance stability and oxygen mobility, using dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration, and employing coreshell catalysts for improved performance and precious metal efficiency. High-temperature conditions exacerbate coke formation, affecting selectivity and stability. Selecting appropriate supports and modifying electronic structures can weaken propylene adsorption and suppress deep dehydrogenation, enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, influenced by catalyst type and reaction conditions, highlights ZrO2 as an efficient alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, making it industrially relevant. In PDH applications, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; mitigating strategies include using ZrO2, which regenerates in situ by removing lattice oxygen with propane/propene, and designing catalysts with optimal crystallite sizes to minimize coke formation. ZrO2's higher activity and durability compared to Pt-based catalysts contribute to cost minimization in the CATOFIN process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, critical for sustaining conversion. Absence of water vapor boosts coke content to 2.8wt%, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored through oxidation without chlorine, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and a halide like chlorine, although chlorine introduction has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical industrial process for propene production, operates under atmospheric pressure, 520°C, and a 1:1 propane-to-nitrogen ratio, typically using PtM alloy catalysts. Pt/Cu SAA catalysts, featuring single platinum atoms on copper nanoparticles, significantly boost propene selectivity (90%) and stability, even under high-temperature conditions. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts diminishes selectivity and activity, affecting efficiency. Implementing strategies like using Pt/Cu SAA and catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can mitigate coke formation and restore initial activity, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting side reactions and coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, prone to deactivation due to coking, can be enhanced with Sn to extend their lifetime. Research on novel catalysts, like Co-based, aims to improve commercialization. Strategies to mitigate coke formation are essential for enhancing PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins, bolstered by natural gas availability. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is vital. Pt-based catalysts, known for their activity and stability, face issues from coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies include adding Cu to suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by chromium toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic industrial process above 500°C, efficiently produces propylene. Metal and oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide, are pivotal, with Pt-based catalysts excelling in selectivity and durability, used in UOP's Oleflex process. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties, all aiming to control coke formation and enhance catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, PtZn intermetallic alloy catalysts are critical, enhancing thermal stability and selectivity by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites. The [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs promote initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibit further dehydrogenation of propylene, and prevent coke formation, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This mechanism boosts PDH efficiency by avoiding coke side reactions and enhancing catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, requiring high temperatures that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts for PDH at high temperatures are critical for industry. Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials are promising for increasing global propene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for propene over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts, where Pt is atomically dispersed, are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks threefold Pt while single-atom Pt remains, shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial CH activation while inhibiting further reactions, minimizing coke formation and improving stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, due to PtGa's thermodynamic stability and Pb's size, which prevents its diffusion into PtGa. This leads to long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Higher temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-based noble metal catalysts with continuous regeneration technology enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, with Pt as a key catalyst, improved by Sn for selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt and single-atom catalysts mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and prohibiting further dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles are notably effective, attaining 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is vital for global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce cycles and enhance propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals to reduce coking rates and using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing coking and deactivation rates, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can mitigate its deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. With global PDH expansion, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration to preserve activity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes, ensuring the process remains efficient and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical method for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Research efforts are directed at developing catalysts that enhance the DHP reaction rate while minimizing cracking, thus prolonging catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity and increased coking rates compared to larger particles (21 nm). Particle size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals that small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, leading to cracking reactions, whereas larger particles are more selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the ratio of CH to CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can act as a promoter, improving selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles suggest modifications in Pt site behavior over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key method for propene production, where temperature and pressure are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are common but costly and toxic, leading to interest in earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major efficiency challenge, mitigated by using phosphate to suppress coking and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt catalyst structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and TiOx to increase electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. [1] Pt is a common catalyst for PDH, following the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. [3] Catalyst deactivation is due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. [5] Rational construction of Pt surface structure improves selectivity and coke control. [7] Weakening propylene adsorption strength is critical. [9] Modifying Pt catalysts' structure increases propylene selectivity. [10] Sn addition aids Pt redistribution for superior stability. [16] Dopants improve selectivity and extend catalyst use. [18] TiOx increases electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently activates the C-H bond in propane, offering an industrially relevant alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites, enhanced by adjusting crystallite size, homolytically cleave C-H bonds. ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate coke formation, a critical challenge in Pt-based catalysts, by regenerating in situ through propane/propene interaction, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include propene production for the chemical industry. Strategies to minimize coke formation and maximize efficiency include using ZrO2 for its higher activity and durability, and employing catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, but coke content escalates to 2.8wt% without it, impairing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, sans added chlorine, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration with a halide like chlorine, though this has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking rate and prolonging regeneration time are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke formation but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, catalyzed by PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAA, is crucial for propene production. Reaction conditions, including temperature around 520°C and atmospheric pressure, are key. Catalyst types significantly affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAA mitigates coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, addressing the efficiency challenge posed by coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges due to coke formation at high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation. Incorporating promoter elements like Sn into Pt-based catalysts mitigates coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition on catalysts, which deactivates them (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies to mitigate coke formation, such as adding Cu promoters, enhance catalyst stability and selectivity (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, requiring temperatures above 500°C due to its endothermic nature. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in commercial processes like Oleflex, face a significant challenge from coke formation, which hinders performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs, with [PtZn4] ensembles as key active sites, enhance selectivity and stability. These ensembles promote the initial C-H cleavage of propane, inhibiting further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, thus improving selectivity and stability by preventing coke side reactions. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] facilitates propene desorption, enhancing stability by prohibiting coke formation and preventing Pt and Zn atom segregation through structural ordering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- and Cr2O3-based materials promising for meeting global demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, but isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the Pt1 site is crucial for PDH while the Pt3 site promotes undesired reactions. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions for propene production. The endothermic reaction is facilitated by heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, especially Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, high temperatures above 600°C, while enhancing conversion, also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a critical challenge, mitigated by using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with continuous regeneration maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Pt-Sn catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, but coke formation remains a significant challenge, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to reduce noble metal usage and enhance catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can tune the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, making them more active and less prone to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propylene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to weaken propylene adsorption. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the rate of coke formation is crucial, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and its rate is highly dependent on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. This on-purpose technique yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, and is expanding globally with dozens of new installations. The shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane as feedstock is driven by high-energy demands, selectivity issues, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. PDH uses PtSn catalysts at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, with catalysts lasting 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Continuous operation ensures uninterrupted product flow, with catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days to combat the efficiency impact of coke formation at high temperatures. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propene production, addressing supply gaps. Key challenges involve hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates and minimize side reactions, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), with higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis reveals activity, selectivity, and coking. Surface intermediates can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking, influenced by Pt particle size: small particles favor CC bond activation (cracking), while larger ones favor CH bond activation (dehydrogenation). Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between these activations. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity and selectivity to CH4 and C2 on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently converts propane to propene, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for optimal performance. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, though their costs and toxicity prompt interest in earth-abundant alternatives. A major challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate to prevent coking and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production using Pt catalysts follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a critical intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking. Strategies to mitigate this include modifying Pt catalyst geometry and electronics, adding Sn for Pt redistribution, using CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts enhance performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Suitable supports and electron transfer from TiOx to Pt also improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is influenced by reaction conditions and catalysts, with ZrO2 emerging as a durable alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's adjustable crystallite size optimizes active site concentration, enhancing propene selectivity. Its in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts. Employing ZrO2 with Pt boosts activity and reduces coke formation, improving the CATOFIN process's cost-effectiveness. Strategies to maximize propene selectivity and restore catalyst activity include optimizing crystallite sizes and using oxidative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor use, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, vital for sustaining conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state via oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Hydrogen oxidation during dehydrogenation transforms the process to exothermic, breaking equilibrium limitations. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation preventing Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 traps Pt in an atomically dispersed state, stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers).", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is vital for propene production. Reaction conditions and catalyst types, like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, affect selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% selectivity and stability under 520°C for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, faces challenges at high temperatures (550-700°C) due to side reactions and coke deposition, leading to catalyst deactivation. Pt-Sn catalysts mitigate coking, extending lifetime, while Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation show promise for lower-temperature PDH, aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins. The endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, which deactivates catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and low selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. This is demonstrated by inhibited propylene adsorption and a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an industrial process for large-scale propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction above 500°C. Pt-based catalysts, favored for their selectivity and durability in Oleflex commercial processes, face a critical challenge in coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and modifying support properties. Computational simulations offer insights into catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, notably [PtZn4] ensembles, serve as active sites that enhance selectivity and stability. They promote propane dehydrogenation while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity by preventing coke side reactions and promoting propylene desorption. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] ensembles prevents coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms, ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a method for propylene production requiring high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts are crucial for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. Severe deactivation under high temperatures necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active but can be improved by isolating Pt atoms. Alloying with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom catalysts face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution is using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, which has isolated Pt1 and Ga sites. For PDH, Pt3 sites are more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable them while keeping Pt1 sites active. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, leaving single-atom Pt intact, significantly improving stability and selectivity. This modification achieves long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation, stabilizing single-atom-like isolated Pt and minimizing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion for propane and butanes. The endothermic reaction is heat-supplemented by catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity over years, facilitating large-scale production of light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, essential for economic conversion, also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. To mitigate coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, strategies include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, though active, face selectivity issues, improved by Sn addition. Key challenges include coke formation, causing deactivation. Strategies involve atomically dispersed Pt for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propylene selectivity. Doped graphene tunes the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, boosting activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to reduce coking rates include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases the deactivating effect of coke, though it cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive and depends on operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable due to the price difference between propane and propylene, making it a favored process. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively produces olefins of polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects growing demand, driven by the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane in the US. High-energy demands and low selectivity in traditional processes push the industry towards more efficient technologies. PDH uses a PtSn catalyst under 1-3 bar pressure and 525-705 C temperatures, with continuous operation for an uninterrupted product stream. Catalysts last 2-3 years, maintaining activity through temperature adjustments. Regeneration cycles occur every 5-10 days. High temperatures conducive to olefin yields also promote coke formation, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH serves as a critical method for propene production, addressing supply gaps left by conventional crackers. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) exhibit higher activity but lower selectivity than larger ones (21 nm), with increased coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes leading to more coke. Comprehensive data from TEOM/GC systems reveal that small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives like iron. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke formation. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and coke formation, a critical challenge. Strategies include modifying Pt catalyst structure, alloying, using supports like g-Al2O3 for Sn addition to improve stability, CeO2 to enhance oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production employs ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. ZrO2's coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites facilitate C-H bond cleavage, with activity controlled by crystallite size. This mitigates coke formation, allowing in situ regeneration and minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite size design further reduces coke formation and maximizes propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, causing catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, enhancing conversion. Absence of water vapor leads to a coke content increase to 2.8wt%, reducing conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance is improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved with air and halide like chlorine, although chlorine has negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts resist sintering due to stable compounds preventing Pt migration. Adding Sn forms small PtSn clusters, enhancing selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalysts can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is impractical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) also helps lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is crucial for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under specific conditions. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) enhance propene selectivity and stability, effectively addressing coke formation, a major efficiency challenge. These SAAs achieve 90% propene selectivity with outstanding stability for over 120 hours. Regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity, mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates. However, this can lead to coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, causing deactivation. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts reduces coking, extending catalyst lifetime. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive route for propene production, converting propane into olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing high-selectivity, anti-coking catalysts is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their activity and stability, face challenges from coke and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu promoters mitigate coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a key industrial process for propene production, operates at temperatures above 500°C. Metal (Pt) and metal oxide (Cr oxide) catalysts are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their selectivity and durability in UOP's Oleflex process. Catalyst regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air. Coke formation, a major challenge, degrades performance. Mitigation strategies include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Computational DFT simulations provide insights into catalyst deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, serve as active sites that promote propane C-H cleavage, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. This structure inhibits coke formation and further dehydrogenation, preventing coke side reactions and promoting propene desorption, thus addressing high reaction temperature challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa. The Pt1 site in PtGa is single-atom Pt, while the Pt3 site is more active for further reactions. Modifying PtGa with Pb selectively blocks Pt3 sites, enhancing selectivity and stability. The Pb-modified PtGa catalyst (PtGaPb) shows outstanding performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. The single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. PtGaPb retains high conversion and selectivity under harsh conditions, demonstrating long-term, continuous, and highly selective propene production without deactivation. The catalyst's thermal stability and resistance to sintering are attributed to the intermetallic PtGa structure and Pb modification. The high selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversions. Endothermic reactions are heated by catalyst bed regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology since the 1970s, enable stable activity without reactor shutdowns. PDH units produce light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. High temperatures, crucial for economic conversions, accelerate side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts necessitates frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for selectivity, face a major challenge: coke formation leading to deactivation. Strategies include atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for enhanced selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize Pt usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles achieving 90% propene selectivity. Doped graphene, by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, offers a promising approach to prevent deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, widely used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism remains unclear. Strategies to mitigate coking include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity. Hydrogen is noted for suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing the deactivating effect of coke. The rate of coke formation is influenced by operating conditions, with hydrogen playing a crucial role in controlling its rate.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable propene production method, favored by current market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, it yields exclusive olefins optimized for polymer-quality purity. With dozens of new PDH installations under construction globally, the process uses a PtSn-based catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for an uninterrupted product stream. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by temperature adjustments. However, high temperatures conducive to high olefin yields also promote coke formation, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carrier addition, and hydrogen-permeable membranes. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the US highlights the industry's search for more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital propene production method, addressing supply shortfalls. Key challenges include hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, extending catalyst life. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Coke formation is significantly influenced by Pt particle size, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the activity ratio between CH and CC bond activation. Interestingly, coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating sites active for CC bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a propene production method, where hydrogen is removed from propane. Reaction conditions and catalyst choice are critical; traditional Pt and Cr catalysts are expensive or hazardous, while recent research highlights promising iron-based alternatives as earth-abundant and environmentally benign. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include using promoters like phosphate and developing coking-resistant catalysts, with regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne as a key intermediate. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, affecting efficiency. Optimizing Pt surface structure enhances selectivity and controls coke. Strong propylene adsorption leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking, forming coke, especially under high temperatures, reducing selectivity (60-80%) and stability. Strategies include modifying Pt catalysts' structure, adding Sn for better regeneration, using CeO2 to reduce coke, and employing dopants to prevent sintering and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts offer enhanced performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx can hinder propylene adsorption and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production is optimized by ZrO2 catalysts, which efficiently cleave C-H bonds and enhance propene selectivity through controlled crystallite size. ZrO2 mitigates coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, regenerating in situ and reducing costs in the CATOFIN process. Strategies include using ZrO2 for higher activity and durability, and employing oxidative regeneration to remove coke deposits and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties enable the use of water vapor, significantly reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit low coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C when water vapor is co-fed, crucial for maintaining conversion. Without water vapor, coke content rises to 2.8wt%, decreasing conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without chlorine, highlighting an effective strategy to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation breaks the equilibrium limitation. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by alloying Pt with a second metal or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion, typically achieved with chlorine, despite its negative effects. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters enhances selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing down coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial. Measures include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time. Optimizing reaction conditions can also help lengthen regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys, is vital for propene production under atmospheric pressure and 520°C. Catalysts like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs influence selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, a major efficiency challenge, by enhancing propylene desorption, achieving 90% propene selectivity and excellent stability for over 120 hours at 520°C. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles restores initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an endothermic process for propene production from propane, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, affecting performance. Adding Sn to Pt-based catalysts enhances their lifetime by reducing deactivation. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation for lower-temperature PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost propane into valuable olefins, economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, deactivating catalysts. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low propylene selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu can enhance stability and selectivity by suppressing coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, typically operating at temperatures over 500°C. Platinum and chromium oxide are primary catalysts, with platinum favored in the Oleflex process for its selectivity and durability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a significant challenge, impacting performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with Sn or other transition metals, and modifying support properties. Catalyst regeneration in Oleflex involves coke combustion with a chlorine-air mixture. Controlling Pt size also influences reactivity and side reactions, with single Pt atom catalysts showing promise. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs are critical, with [PtZn4] ensembles acting as active sites that promote the first and second C-H cleavage of propane, enhancing selectivity. This structure prevents further dehydrogenation of surface-bound propylene, inhibiting coke formation and improving stability. The [PtZn4] ensembles also facilitate propylene desorption and prevent coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production demands high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Stable catalysts are essential for industry, with Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials being promising. PtGaPb catalysts, featuring isolated Pt atoms, show exceptional performance in PDH at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion and 99.6% propylene selectivity for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes initial reactions while inhibiting further coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt, offering high thermal stability and resistance to sintering. This strategy minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability and continuous, selective propylene production at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, above 600°C, which accelerates side reactions and coke formation. Catalysts evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metals, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology enabling stable activity without shutdowns since the 1970s. PDH produces light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is pivotal for propene production, compensating for traditional method shortfalls. Pt catalysts, enhanced by Sn promoters for selectivity, face a critical challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles improve selectivity and stability, minimizing noble metal usage. Doped graphene strategies adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, predicting enhanced activity and reduced deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation cycles, enhancing propene output. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 with weak acidity, and controlling hydrogen levels. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, but cannot remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, influenced by operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production is economically viable, driven by favorable market conditions and the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies offer an on-purpose technique for exclusive olefin production, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The global increase in PDH installations reflects the industry's shift towards more economical feedstock and efficient conversion technologies. The process uses a PtSn-based catalyst under controlled conditions, with continuous operation for uninterrupted product flow. Catalyst regeneration is crucial due to the endothermic nature of the reaction and the formation of coke at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include selective hydrogen combustion and the use of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propene production method, yet faces challenges with hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, impacting product selectivity and catalyst activity. Research focuses on developing catalysts to boost DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller sizes resulting in higher coke content. Comprehensive analysis using TEOM/GC systems reveals activity, selectivity, and coking data. Surface intermediates can either desorb as C3H6 or undergo further cracking to C1, C2, or coke. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the balance between CH and CC bond activation. Coke can enhance selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. Changes in initial C3H6 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site modifications over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key propene production method, where conditions and catalyst choice are critical. Pt and Cr catalysts are effective but have drawbacks; iron-based catalysts are emerging as promising alternatives. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts hinders efficiency, but strategies like using phosphate to suppress coking and implementing regeneration can mitigate this issue, enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt catalysts face deactivation from coke formation, accelerated on small clusters. Strategies include rational Pt surface design, Sn addition for Pt redistribution, CeO2 promotion for oxygen mobility, and dopants to prevent sintering and reduce carbon deposition. Coreshell Pt catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption energies and higher selectivity. Modifying Pt catalysts' structures increases propene selectivity under high-temperature conditions, where strong Pt-propylene interaction leads to coke formation and poor stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH using ZrO2 as a catalyst efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, enhancing propene selectivity due to optimal crystallite size. ZrO2 offers durability over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx, with in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, making it cost-effective for industrial PDH applications. High-temperature conditions around 550-625°C promote dehydrogenation, with ZrO2 showing high activity and selectivity. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency, but ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing for catalyst regeneration in the CATOFIN process. Alternative catalysts and oxidative regeneration techniques address coke formation, restoring catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation via sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) with water vapor co-feeding at 680°C, but coke increases to 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation without added chlorine, as demonstrated by the redox properties of ceria and the effectiveness of water vapor in mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen is oxidized to water, the process becomes exothermic, breaking the equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts, despite decades of use, remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering, which causes permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be enhanced by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration requires redispersion of Pt particles, often achieved with chlorine, despite its drawbacks. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 show resistance to sintering due to stable compound formation. PtSn clusters on CeO2 are highly selective for PDH, and the deactivated catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases PDH efficiency by reducing activity and selectivity. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration intervals are crucial. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, adjusting space time and linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion. Introducing H2O reduces coke but also conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure is not practical. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Enhancing catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration intervals.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a key industrial process for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under conditions of around 520°C and atmospheric pressure. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) are noted for enhancing propene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, and achieving high selectivity and stability. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can reduce selectivity and activity, affecting efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate coke formation, maintaining high propene selectivity (90%) and stability under high-temperature conditions for over 120 hours. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene in an endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates, which can lead to side reactions and coke deposition, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts, especially when promoted with Sn, improve lifetime by reducing deactivation from coking. Research on novel catalysts and microwave irradiation to lower energy consumption and enable PDH at lower temperatures are promising strategies to enhance process efficiency and mitigate coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting propane into olefins. It's economically viable due to abundant natural gas. However, the endothermic reaction requires high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding promoters like Cu, which can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency and regeneration. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by its endothermic nature and requirement for temperatures above 500 degrees Celsius. Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably platinum and chromium oxide, are essential. Pt-based catalysts, used in UOP's Oleflex commercial PDH, face the challenge of coke formation, which hinders performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen with propane and alloying Pt with metals like Sn. These measures aim to control coke formation, preserving catalyst efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges with high temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 intermetallic alloy SACs address this by dispersing active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles also facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and segregation of Pt and Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propylene production at high temperatures leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Stable catalysts without deactivation are crucial. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for global propylene demand. Severe deactivation necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals enhances propylene selectivity. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues. Single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds, such as PtGa, is a solution. Pb-modified PtGa selectively blocks Pt3 sites, improving selectivity and stability. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows high conversion with excellent propylene selectivity, achieving long-term, continuous, and highly selective propylene production at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% per-pass conversion. Endothermic reactions require heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale production of light olefins, like propylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Higher temperatures increase conversion but also accelerate side reactions and coke formation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include platinum modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for meeting the growing demand for propene, with Pt catalysts enhanced by Sn for selectivity. However, coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is a major issue, leading to deactivation. Strategies include using single-atom catalysts to minimize noble metal usage and improve properties, achieving high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can also adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, enhancing activity and reducing deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercial since the 80s, is crucial for global propene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is unclear. Understanding coke formation aids in optimizing reaction conditions to reduce dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing propene productivity. Strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, using supports like SBA-15 to weaken propylene adsorption, and leveraging hydrogen to suppress coke precursor formation, though it can't remove formed coke. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a profitable on-purpose method for producing pure propene, optimized for polymer-quality purity. The industry is expanding with new PDH installations, driven by the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously. The catalyst's 2-3 year lifespan is maintained by adjusting temperatures. Regeneration cycles every 5-10 days are essential due to coke formation at high temperatures, which impacts efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a solution to the propylene supply gap, yet faces challenges with cracking and coke formation, affecting product selectivity and catalyst activity. Smaller Pt particles, though more active, are less selective and increase coke formation rates, impacting catalyst longevity. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, crucial for prolonging catalyst life. Coke can act as a promoter by deactivating sites prone to cracking, improving selectivity to propene. Strategies focus on optimizing Pt particle size and understanding surface intermediates to enhance CH bond activation for dehydrogenation over CC bond activation for cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH converts propane to propene by dehydrogenation, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for efficiency. Pt and Cr are common catalysts, but research explores earth-abundant alternatives due to cost and toxicity. Coke formation on Pt catalysts reduces activity and selectivity, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coking include using phosphate and employing regeneration techniques to restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, using Pt catalysts, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne (CH3CCH*) as a key intermediate for CC bond breaking. Catalyst deactivation occurs due to CH3CC* and C* formation, leading to coke and reduced efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst performance include modifying Pt catalysts' size, shape, alloying, and support selection. Adding Sn aids Pt redistribution, enhancing stability. CeO2 promotes oxygen storage and mobility, reducing coke and improving stability. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Novel coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency. TiOx species increase Pt electron density, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration. These modifications aim to weaken propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation, addressing the critical challenge of coke formation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a process for propene production, utilizes ZrO2 as an efficient catalyst due to its ability to cleave C-H bonds in alkanes. Adjusting ZrO2's crystallite size enhances propene selectivity and mitigates coke formation, a critical challenge for Pt-based catalysts. ZrO2 regenerates in situ through propane/propene interaction, making it a durable and cost-effective choice for industrial applications like the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity, and ZrO2's higher activity and ability to regenerate by removing carbon deposits ensure its superiority over Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production necessitates high temperatures, leading to catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate the use of water vapor, drastically reducing coke deposition. PtSn catalysts display minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting with 2.8wt% without it, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be restored to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation treatment, enhancing regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process converting propane to propene and hydrogen, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during PDH breaks equilibrium limitations, transforming the process to exothermic. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Sintering of Pt nanoparticles causes permanent deactivation, but adding a second metal or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt can improve sintering resistance. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases activity and selectivity, classified into quick deactivation and steady state. Slowing coking and prolonging regeneration time is crucial, achieved by optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding a second metal, using non-acidic carriers). Increasing H2 partial pressure inhibits coke but decreases conversion, while introducing H2O reduces coke but also decreases conversion due to competitive adsorption. Increasing reaction temperature weakens H2O's effect on conversion. Shortening space time can reduce coke but must balance conversion and selectivity. Increasing linear velocity reduces olefin adsorption and backmixing, inhibiting secondary reactions like coke formation, but cannot be greatly increased due to increased pressure drop. Improving catalyst coking resistance is the most effective way to prolong regeneration time.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is pivotal for propene production, employing PtM alloy catalysts under conditions favoring selectivity and activity. Pt/Cu single atom alloys (SAAs) exhibit superior performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures. A critical challenge is coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, which diminishes efficiency. Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propene desorption, preventing further dehydrogenation, and maintaining high selectivity. Catalyst regeneration through oxidation-reduction cycles can restore initial activity, addressing the coke formation issue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process, converts propane to propene, requiring high temperatures for high conversion rates, which can lead to coke formation on catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, especially when promoted with Sn, show enhanced longevity by reducing coking. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave irradiation suggests energy-efficient PDH at lower temperatures, promising for future commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising route for propene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added olefins (Quote 4). However, the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction requires high temperatures, leading to thermal cracking and rapid coke formation, which deactivates catalysts (Quote 7). Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is essential (Quote 9). Pt-based catalysts, favored for their activity and stability, face challenges from coke formation and low selectivity (Quote 10). Strategies like adding Cu can suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, improving process efficiency (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process requiring temperatures above 500°C, is vital for large-scale propene production. Pt and Cr oxide are primary catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high selectivity and durability in commercial processes. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts significantly degrades performance. Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, utilizing transition metals such as Cu and Zn, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "In PDH for propene production, Pt1M1 IMA SACs, specifically [PtZn4] ensembles, serve as active sites that promote propane C-H cleavage, enhancing selectivity and stability. These ensembles inhibit further dehydrogenation and coke formation, crucial for preventing side reactions and promoting propylene desorption. The electron-rich Pt1 site in [PtZn4] boosts thermal stability and prevents coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, maintaining catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production at high temperatures can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, a critical challenge for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based catalysts are promising for meeting global propene demand. Severe deactivation from coke necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms can inhibit side reactions, enhancing propene selectivity and stability. Single-atom Pt catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves using single-atom-like Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds like PtGa, where the stable (111) surface displays isolated and threefold Pt sites. The Pt3 site is more active for further reactions, requiring modification to disable it while keeping the Pt1 site active for selective and stable PDH. Pb-modified PtGa, where Pb blocks the threefold Pt site, shows outstanding catalytic performance at high temperatures, achieving 30% conversion with 99.6% propene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without deactivation. Single-atom Pt catalyzes the first two CH activations while inhibiting the third, minimizing coke formation and improving selectivity and stability. The combination of intermetallic PtGa and Pb modification stabilizes single-atom Pt at high temperatures, with the catalyst retaining its structure and demonstrating high thermal stability and resistance to sintering.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction requires heat from catalyst regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with continuous regeneration technology, enable stable activity and high selectivity for light olefins production at superatmospheric pressures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts accelerates deactivation, necessitating frequent regeneration. Mitigation strategies include platinum modifiers to selectively weaken olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst acidity with alkali metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Pt catalysts, despite high activity, require Sn promotion for enhanced propene selectivity. A major challenge is coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies include using atomically dispersed Pt catalysts for improved selectivity and stability, single-atom catalysts to optimize noble metal usage and catalytic properties, and Pt single atoms on Cu nanoparticles for high propylene selectivity. Doped graphene can adjust the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms, with the most positively charged single Pt atom being the most active and resistant to deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "PDH, commercialized since the 1980s, is crucial for global propene production. Pt-based catalysts in Oleflex processes face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, whose mechanism is not fully understood. To optimize PDH efficiency, strategies include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals and using supports with weak acidity to reduce coking rates. Hydrogen is shown to suppress coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation without removing existing coke. Understanding coke formation helps in designing catalysts that maintain activity while minimizing coke, crucial for enhancing propene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a favored propene production method due to favorable market conditions and its exclusive olefin yield. The industry shifts from naphtha to cheaper shale-based ethane for efficiency, with dozens of new PDH plants under construction. The endothermic PDH reaction uses a PtSn catalyst at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, operating continuously for 2-3 years with temperature adjustments to maintain activity. Catalyst regeneration every 5-10 days is crucial due to coke formation at high temperatures, impacting efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke include selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carrier addition, preserving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical method for propene production, facing challenges like long chain hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which reduce selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective than larger ones (21 nm), leading to higher coking rates. Research aims to develop catalysts that enhance DHP reaction rates while minimizing cracking, prolonging catalyst life. Pt particle size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller particles resulting in higher coke content. A TEOM/GC system can provide comprehensive data on activity, selectivity, and coking. The reaction mechanism involves surface intermediates that can desorb as C3H6 or undergo cracking. Small Pt particles favor CC bond activation, causing cracking, while larger particles are selective for CH bond activation, promoting dehydrogenation. Selectivity to C3H6 depends on the CH to CC bond activation ratio. Coke can improve selectivity by deactivating CC bond activation sites. The decrease in initial C3H6 selectivity and increase in CH4 and C2 selectivity on large Pt particles may result from Pt site rearrangement during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH efficiently produces propene by removing hydrogen from propane, with reaction conditions like temperature and pressure crucial for optimal efficiency and selectivity. Common catalysts include Pt and Cr, but recent research suggests promising alternatives based on inexpensive, non-toxic iron. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly reduces activity and selectivity, impacting process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using phosphate to suppress coking and developing alternative catalysts with high resistance to coking. Thermal treatment under an oxidizing atmosphere is an effective regeneration technique to remove coke and restore catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cp04669h"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, catalyzed by Pt, follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism, with propyne crucial for CC bond breaking. Pt deactivation occurs due to coke formation from CH3CC* and C*, exacerbated by small Pt clusters' larger surface area. Strategies to enhance selectivity and stability include modifying Pt catalysts' structure and composition, adding Sn for Pt redistribution and stability, and using CeO2 to reduce coke deposition. Dopants prevent Pt sintering, suppress side reactions, and promote carbon migration. Coreshell catalysts improve performance and precious metal efficiency, with lower propylene adsorption and higher selectivity. Selecting supports like TiOx modifies catalytic performance, hindering propylene adsorption and facilitating coke migration.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs01262a"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production activates C-H bonds in propane, influenced by conditions and catalysts. ZrO2, with unsaturated Zr sites, efficiently cleaves C-H bonds, offering an industrial alternative to Pt, CrOx, GaOx, or VOx. Its activity is adjustable by crystallite size, maximizing propene selectivity. Industrial PDH applications include chemical industry propene production. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts reduces efficiency; ZrO2 mitigates this, allowing in situ regeneration through propane/propene interaction, minimizing costs in the CATOFIN process. Optimal crystallite sizes minimize coke formation, maximizing propene selectivity. Strategies include ZrO2 as an alternative catalyst and oxidative regeneration techniques to restore activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, an endothermic process, necessitates high temperatures for economic yields, risking catalyst deactivation through sintering and coke formation. Ceria's redox properties facilitate water vapor usage, drastically reducing coke deposition at high temperatures. PtSn catalysts exhibit minimal coke content (<1wt%) after 6 hours at 680°C with water vapor, contrasting sharply with 2.8wt% without, impacting conversion. Spent catalysts can be efficiently regenerated to an atomically dispersed state through oxidation, eliminating the need for chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, converting propane to propene and hydrogen. Oxidizing hydrogen to water during dehydrogenation can transform the process to exothermic and break equilibrium. PDH is catalyzed by metal complex catalysts or supported metal/metal oxide catalysts, with commercial processes using supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Supported Pt catalysts remain a research focus due to challenges like sintering of Pt nanoparticles, a major cause of permanent deactivation. Sintering resistance can be improved by adding a second metal to form alloys with Pt or using carriers with strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, nanocarbon, or MgAl2O4 spinel. Preventing sintering completely is challenging, but measures can slow it down. Regeneration of sintered Pt catalysts requires redispersion of Pt particles, typically achieved by air regeneration in the presence of a halide like chlorine. However, chlorine introduction has negative effects and is not always feasible. Solving Pt sintering is more urgent for automotive exhaust catalysts due to their higher temperature requirements and lack of in-situ redispersion. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 catalysts have shown resistance to sintering due to the formation of stable compounds that prevent Pt migration. Pt supported on CeO2 can trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, which is stable even at high temperatures. Adding Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be fully regenerated by burning coke without oxychlorination, which is a significant progress. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts PDH process efficiency by decreasing catalyst activity and selectivity. Measures to slow down coking rate include optimizing reaction conditions (increasing H2 partial pressure, introducing H2O, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, shortening space time, increasing linear velocity) and improving catalyst composition (adding second metal, using non-acidic carrier). The most effective way to prolong time between regenerations is improving catalyst coking resistance. Optimizing reaction conditions (introducing hydrogen or steam) can also help lengthen time between regenerations.", "Doi": "10.1039/d0cs00983k"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using PtM alloys like PtSn and Pt/Cu SAAs, is crucial for propene production under conditions of 520°C and atmospheric pressure, with a propane-to-nitrogen ratio of 1:1. Pt/Cu SAAs exhibit high propene selectivity (90%) and stability over 120 hours at high temperatures. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts decreases efficiency, but Pt/Cu SAAs mitigate this by enhancing propylene desorption and preventing further dehydrogenation. Successive oxidation-reduction cycles can regenerate the catalyst, restoring initial activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an endothermic process for propene production, operates at high temperatures (550-700°C), promoting side reactions and coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts. Adding Sn to Pt catalysts mitigates coking, enhancing longevity. Research on Co-based catalysts and microwave-assisted PDH aims to improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a competitive propene production method, converting low-cost propane into olefins. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Developing catalysts with high propylene selectivity and anti-coking ability is critical. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity and stability, face challenges with coke formation and selectivity. Strategies like adding Cu to Pt-based catalysts can suppress coke and lighter hydrocarbon formation, enhancing stability and selectivity. Cr-based catalysts, though effective, are limited by toxicity concerns. The inhibited propylene adsorption on PtCu/Al2O3 diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving process efficiency and catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/c4nr02143f"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical industrial process for propene production, characterized by an endothermic reaction at temperatures over 500°C (Quote [2]). Metal and metal oxide catalysts, notably Pt and Cr oxide (Quote [3]), are utilized, with Pt-based catalysts featured in the Oleflex commercial process (Quote [4]), where regeneration involves coke combustion using chlorine-air (Quote [5]). Pt catalysts are favored for their selectivity and durability (Quote [6]), but coke formation significantly degrades performance (Quote [7]). Strategies to mitigate coke include co-feeding hydrogen (Quote [11]), alloying Pt with metals like Sn, using transition metals, modifying support properties, and controlling Pt catalyst size.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production faces challenges at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability. Atomically ordered Pt1M1 IMA SACs disperse active sites into isolated Pt1 sites, enhancing thermal stability. [PtZn4] ensembles in PtZn IMAs act as key active sites, promoting initial C-H cleavage of propane while inhibiting further dehydrogenation and coke formation, improving selectivity and stability. These ensembles facilitate the desorption of surface-bound propylene, preventing coke formation and Pt/Zn segregation, thus enhancing overall stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a method for propylene production, requires high temperatures for sufficient yields but leads to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Developing stable catalysts for PDH without deactivation at high temperatures is crucial for industry. Pt- or Cr2O3-based materials are promising for meeting global propylene demand. Severe deactivation due to coke deposition and sintering necessitates continuous catalyst regeneration. Selectivity and stability in PDH are influenced by the balance between propylene desorption and side reactions leading to coke. Pt-based catalysts, especially PtPt ensembles, are active for over-dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Isolating Pt atoms inhibits side reactions. Alloying Pt with inactive metals like Sn enhances propylene selectivity and stability. Single-atom and single-atom alloy catalysts are effective but face thermal stability issues at high temperatures. A solution involves single-atom-like isolated Pt in thermally stable intermetallic compounds. Pb-modified PtGa, where threefold Pt is blocked by Pb while single-atom Pt remains intact, shows outstanding catalytic performance in PDH at high temperatures. The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst achieves 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600°C for 96 hours without performance loss. The high propylene selectivity of Pt1 sites minimizes coke accumulation, leading to high catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production, commercial since the 1930s, achieves 30-60% conversion rates. The endothermic reaction is heat-driven by regeneration, fuel combustion, and chromium redox cycle. High temperatures boost conversion but also increase side reactions and coke formation, accelerating catalyst deactivation. Noble metal catalysts, notably Pt-based, with CCR technology, enable stable activity and large-scale operation. Coke formation on Pt catalysts is mitigated by using modifiers to weaken olefin interaction, improving fouling resistance, and controlling acidity with alkali metals. Multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR maintain high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "PDH is vital for propene production, compensating for traditional methods' limitations. Pt catalysts, augmented with Sn for selectivity, face a significant challenge in coke formation, leading to deactivation. Atomically dispersed Pt catalysts and single-atom catalysts on Cu nanoparticles mitigate this issue, boosting propene selectivity by 90% and curtailing deep dehydrogenation. Doped graphene further enhances activity and reduces coke formation by tuning the electronic structure of supported Pt atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03286"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation, a commercial technique since the 1980s, significantly contributes to global propylene supply. Pt-based catalysts, used in Oleflex processes, face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include modifying Pt with Sn or alkali metals, which provide excess electrons to Pt, reducing coking rates, and using supports with weak acidity, like SBA-15, to weaken propylene adsorption. Operating conditions significantly influence coke formation, with hydrogen shown to suppress coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Coke formation is structure-sensitive, and hydrogen can decrease both its rate and deactivating effect.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "PDH for propene production benefits from favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies, optimized for polymer-quality olefins, exclusively yield specific olefins. The petrochemical industry's shift to shale-based ethane from oil-based naphtha is evident with numerous PDH installations under construction. Seeking more economical feedstock and efficient technologies, the industry addresses high-energy demands and dwindling reserves. The dehydrogenation step's duration is heat-dependent, with PtSn-based catalysts lasting 2-3 years and requiring temperature adjustments for constant activity. Operating at 1-3 bar and 525-705 C, the continuous system regenerates catalysts every 5-10 days. High temperatures promote coke formation, impacting efficiency, necessitating strategies for mitigation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    