<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          No quotes provided.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The literature does not provide a comparison between silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides. It focuses on the activation of C-H bonds in cyclooctane and methane by a silica-supported tantalum hydride complex. The complex is able to activate the C-H bonds at low temperatures, forming tantalum-alkyl surface complexes. These complexes can be transformed into tantalum-alkoxy derivatives under molecular oxygen, which then react with acetic acid to form alkyl acetates. The high activity of the surface organometallic fragments in catalytic conditions is attributed to the high electrophilic character of the metals and their immobilization and isolation, which prevent dimerization or deactivation. The mechanism of C-H bond activation involves a σ-bond metathesis process, but an oxidative addition of the C-H bond followed by hydrogen elimination cannot be excluded. The complex activates the C-H and C-D bonds of cyclooctane and CD4, respectively, to form cyclooctyl and perdeuteriomethyl-tantalum surface complexes. The activation occurs at low temperatures, and the complex is believed to have a d0 configuration, similar to other early transition metal complexes reported to activate C-H bonds. The high reactivity is attributed to the electrophilic character of tantalum, which is formally an eight-electron species, and the immobilization and isolation of the tantalum centers on the silica surface, which prevents dimerization or deactivation. The supported tantalum-hydride complex activates cyclooctane and methane at room temperature to form the corresponding tantalum-alkyl surface species. These species can be transformed under molecular oxygen into tantalum-alkoxy derivatives, which with acetic acid give rise to the corresponding alkylacetates. The high activity of the complex in catalytic conditions is attributed to the high electrophilic character of tantalum, which is formally an eight-electron species, and the immobilization and isolation of the tantalum centers that prevent dimerization or deactivation. The mechanism of C-H bond activation involves a σ-bond metathesis process, as no hydride is left on the surface after alkane activation.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          文献没有提供硅胶支撑的锆氢化物和氧化铝支撑的钍氢化物的比较。它专注于硅胶支撑的钽氢化物复合物对环辛烷和甲烷中C-H键的激活。该复合物能够在低温下激活C-H键，形成钽-烷基表面复合物。这些复合物在分子氧下可转化为钽-烷氧基衍生物，然后与乙酸反应形成烷基乙酸盐。表面有机金属片段在催化条件下的高活性归因于金属的高亲电性和它们的固定化和隔离，这防止了二聚化或失活。C-H键激活的机制涉及σ-键的变位过程，但不能排除C-H键的氧化加成后氢气的消除。该复合物激活环辛烷和CD4的C-H和C-D键，分别形成环辛基和全氘甲基钽表面复合物。激活在低温下发生，复合物被认为具有d0构型，类似于其他报道的早期过渡金属复合物，这些复合物可以激活C-H键。高反应性归因于钽的亲电性，它是形式上的八电子物种，以及钽中心在二氧化硅表面的固定和隔离，这防止了二聚化或失活。支撑的钽氢化物复合物在室温下活化环辛烷和甲烷，形成相应的钽-烷基表面物种。这些物种可以在分子氧下转化为钽-烷氧基衍生物，这些衍生物与乙酸反应产生相应的烷基乙酸盐。该复合物在催化条件下的高活性归因于钽的高亲电性，钽是形式上的八电子物种，以及钽中心的固定化和隔离，防止了二聚化或失活。C-H键活化的机制涉及σ键的变位过程，因为烷烃活化后表面没有留下氢化物。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
