<quotes>
Results from N2 adsorption, XRD and TEM indicated that impregnation method used here led to a highly-dispersed ceria on carbon. Conversely to massive CeO2, TPR profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), which are indicative of the easier reduction of the supported promoter. Addition of platinum partially promotes the reduction of surface ceria, this indicating a close metal-promoter interaction. Ceria reducibility was increased with tin addition. The reduction treatment at 773 K produced a strong decrease in the CO adsorption capacity in all cases, although this loss was more relevant for the monometallic catalyst. After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C was the most active catalyst, while the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity. Reduction at high temperature (773 K) produced the decrease of activity in the case of monometallic sample while bimetallic catalysts, specially the one with Sn/Pt = 0.25, increased the citral conversion values. Reduction treatment at 773 K also increased selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) of bimetallic samples, which presented in all cases higher values than their monometallic counterpart. The onset of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites after the reduction process is proposed to explain the increase in activity and selectivity of bimetallic catalysts.
</quotes>

Answer: 
The study indicates that the impregnation method utilized resulted in a highly dispersed ceria on carbon. This ceria material shows a distinct difference in its TPR profile compared to bulk CeO2, with two overlapping peaks at lower temperatures suggesting easier reduction. The addition of platinum to the ceria supports enhances the reduction of the surface ceria, implying a strong interaction between the metals. Tin addition increases the reducibility of ceria. After reduction treatments, the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C catalyst exhibits the highest activity at a lower temperature, whereas the presence of tin reduces its catalytic performance. High-temperature reduction decreases the activity of monometallic samples but increases the activity of bimetallic catalysts, particularly those with a Sn/Pt ratio of 0.25. These treatments also enhance the selectivity to unsaturated alcohols, with bimetallic samples showing superior selectivity compared to their monometallic counterparts. The creation of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites post-reduction is proposed as an explanation for the improved activity and selectivity of the bimetallic catalysts.

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究显示，所采用的浸渍方法导致了碳上高度分散的氧化铈。与大量CeO2相比，CeO2/C的TPR图谱在较低温度下显示出两个重叠峰，这表明支持剂的更容易还原。铂的添加部分促进了表面氧化铈的还原，这表明金属促进剂之间存在紧密的相互作用。锡的添加增加了氧化铈的可还原性。在低温下进行的还原处理后，单金属Pt/CeO2/C催化剂在较低温度下表现出最高的活性，而锡的存在降低了其催化性能。高温下的还原减少了单金属样本的活性，但提高了双金属催化剂的活性，特别是Sn/Pt比例为0.25的催化剂。这些处理还提高了不饱和醇的选择性，双金属样品相对于其单金属同系物具有更高的选择性。提出在还原过程中形成的新的PtCeOx和PtSnOx位点可以解释双金属催化剂活性和选择性的提高。
