<quotes>
"Results from N2 adsorption, XRD and TEM indicated that impregnation method used here led to a highly-dispersed ceria on carbon."
"Conversely to massive CeO2, TPR profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), which are indicative of the easier reduction of the supported promoter."
"Addition of platinum partially promotes the reduction of surface ceria, this indicating a close metal-promoter interaction."
"Ceria reducibility was increased with tin addition."
"After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C was the most active catalyst, while the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity."
"Reduction at high temperature (773 K) produced the decrease of activity in the case of monometallic sample while bimetallic catalysts, specially the one with Sn/Pt = 0.25, increased the citral conversion values."
"Reduction treatment at 773 K also increased selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) of bimetallic samples, which presented in all cases higher values than their monometallic counterpart."
"The onset of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites after the reduction process is proposed to explain the increase in activity and selectivity of bimetallic catalysts."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The experimental techniques such as N2 adsorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to verify and quantify the oxygen-induced surface segregation of subsurface 3d atoms (specifically Ni and Co) in Pt-3d-Pt(111) bimetallic systems. The results indicated that the impregnation method led to a highly dispersed ceria on carbon. The temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), suggesting easier reduction of the supported promoter compared to massive CeO2. Platinum addition facilitated the reduction of surface ceria, demonstrating a close interaction between the metals and the promoter. The reducibility of ceria was enhanced with the addition of tin. After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C catalyst showed the highest activity, whereas the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity. At a high temperature (773 K), the monometallic catalyst experienced a decrease in activity, while the bimetallic catalysts, especially those with a Sn/Pt ratio of 0.25, showed an increase in citral conversion values. Reduction at 773 K also led to an increase in selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) in the bimetallic samples, which exhibited higher values than their monometallic counterparts. The formation of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites post-reduction process was proposed to explain the enhanced activity and selectivity of the bimetallic catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
实验技术，如N2吸附、X射线衍射(XRD)和透射电子显微镜(TEM)，被用于验证并量化在Pt-3d-Pt(111)双金属体系中由氧诱导的亚表面3d原子（特别是Ni和Co）的表面分离。结果表明，采用的浸渍方法导致了碳上的高度分散的铈。与大量CeO2相比，CeO2/C的TPR谱在低温下显示出两个重叠的宽峰（803和903 K），这表明支持促进剂更容易还原。铂的添加促进了表面铈的还原，表明金属与促进剂之间有密切的相互作用。铈的可还原性随着锡的添加而增加。在低温（473 K）下进行还原后，单金属Pt/CeO2/C催化剂表现出最高活性，而锡的存在降低了催化活性。在高温（773 K）下，单金属催化剂的活性下降，而双金属催化剂，尤其是Sn/Pt比例为0.25的催化剂，显示出更高的异构化值。在773 K下进行的还原也提高了双金属样品中不饱和醇（香叶醇和柠檬醇）的选择性，这些样品在所有情况下均具有高于其单金属对应物的更高值。提出了在还原过程后形成新的PtCeOx和PtSnOx位点来解释双金属催化剂活性和选择性的增加。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
