<quotes>
[1] "This study provides operando spectroscopic information on the short- and long-term deactivation process of the catalyst."
[2] "The aim of this study is to demonstrate the advantage of the multi-technique approach in catalytic testing and analysis."
[3] "It is, however, very advantageous to combine two or more time-resolved spectroscopic techniques in one catalytic reactor set-up because complementary information can be obtained simultaneously for the same catalyst material under identical catalytic conditions."
[4] "Both the UV-VIS and Raman spectra at the end of the regenerative cycle are identical to those at the beginning of the dehydrogenation cycle."
[5] "Since the Raman measurements provide us with direct information on the amount of coke on the catalyst, this technique is most suitable for that."
[6] "The capability of operando UV-VIS measurements to determine long-term deactivation was verified by performing a propane dehydrogenation experiment in which the catalyst was purposefully deactivated."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature focuses on the development of a novel experimental setup for characterizing supported metal oxide catalysts under working conditions. The setup combines product analysis through online mass spectrometry with catalyst characterization by time-resolved operando UV-VIS and Raman spectroscopy. The potential of this approach is demonstrated by studying the propane dehydrogenation over a chromium oxide on alumina catalyst. It is shown that these spectroscopic techniques provide valuable complementary information on the changing catalyst performance during successive propane dehydrogenation operating cycles. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the advantage of the multi-technique approach in catalytic testing and analysis. It is highlighted that the information collected has good potential to be used as a tool to more efficiently operate a propane dehydrogenation process.

The study uses a newly developed system consisting of a 6 mm diameter quartz reactor tube with optical fiber technology to couple UV-VIS and Raman spectroscopy directly to a regular fixed-bed catalytic reactor. The system allows for fast product analysis by online mass spectrometry. The potential of this experimental setup is explored by studying the dehydrogenation of propane to propene over supported chromium oxide, vanadium oxide, and molybdenum oxide catalysts. The results obtained for a 13 wt% Cr/Al2O3 alkane dehydrogenation catalyst are discussed as an example.

Operando spectroscopic information on the short- and long-term deactivation process of the catalyst is provided. It is found that the different techniques provide complementary pieces of information, which are in excellent agreement with each other. The authors anticipate that this new set-up will become a very useful tool for operando catalyst characterization. The system allows for the monitoring of different states of the active metal oxide phase as well as information on coke formation on the catalyst. The study demonstrates that the information collected has good potential to be used as a tool to more efficiently operate a propane dehydrogenation process.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文主要关注了一种新型实验设置的发展，该设置用于在工作条件下表征支持的金属氧化物催化剂。该设置结合了在线质谱法的产品分析与通过时间分辨原位UV-VIS和拉曼光谱法进行催化剂表征。通过研究在氧化铝上的铬氧化物上进行丙烷脱氢的催化剂，证明了这些光谱技术提供了有关催化剂性能随周期性丙烷脱氢操作循环变化的有价值补充信息。本研究旨在展示多技术方法在催化测试和分析中的优势。指出收集的信息具有用于更高效操作丙烷脱氢过程的潜力。

使用了一个新的开发系统，该系统由一个直径为6毫米的石英反应管组成，该管具有光学级石英窗口的特殊正方形部分，其中管壁由光学级石英窗口制成。系统允许通过光纤技术直接将UV-VIS和拉曼光谱耦合到常规固定床催化反应器中。该系统通过在线质谱法实现快速产品分析。通过研究支持的铬氧化物、钒氧化物和钼氧化物催化剂上的脱氢反应，探索了这种实验设置的潜力。讨论了13 wt% Cr/Al2O3烷基脱氢化催化剂的结果作为例子。

提供了关于催化剂短时和长时失活过程的原位光谱信息。发现不同的技术提供了互补的信息，彼此之间非常一致。作者预计这种新设置将成为原位催化剂表征非常有用的工具。该系统允许监控活性金属氧化物相的不同状态以及催化剂上的焦炭形成。研究表明收集的信息具有用于更高效操作丙烷脱氢过程的潜力。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
