<quotes>
3.1.1. O(2) Site Pathways.
(a) O(2)-X-C. The energy
profiles of these pathways and the structures of the cyclic TSs are depicted in Figure 2. The O(2)-Ga site pair can be regarded as a Lewis acid-base pair since the active site pair is formed by a positively charged gallium atom and a negatively charged oxygen atom. This step is 9.9 kcal/mol endothermic with an energy barrier of 25.3 kcal/mol (TS1, Figure 2), which is lower than the barrier for the initial methane activation (28.7 kcal/ mol)46 but is higher than the barrier for the initial ethane activation (16.8 kcal/mol)47 on the zeolite-supported gallium atom.
(b) O(2)-X-R. As for the radical mechanism (R), all pathways share the same initial step, i.e., H abstraction by the same O(2) site. As can be seen from Figure 2, the energy barrier for the first H abstraction from propane is 18.1 kcal/mol. A physically adsorbed propyl radical is formed and its adsorption energy is 4.5 kcal/mol.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
In the study of propane dehydrogenation over Ga2O3(100) surface, the activation of the initial C-H bond primarily follows a radical mechanism facilitated by the two-coordinated surface oxygen site (O(2)). This mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from propane, resulting in the formation of a propyl radical and a hydroxyl group (O(2)H). Subsequently, the physically adsorbed propyl radical can form either propoxide or propylgallium intermediates. Following this, propene is produced through the abstraction of another hydrogen atom from the propyl, propoxide, or propylgallium by either surface oxygen or gallium sites. The H abstraction by the O(2) site consistently demonstrates a lower energy barrier. However, the departure of hydrogen atoms from hydroxyl groups in the form of either H2 or H2O proves challenging. Moreover, the formation of propene through H abstraction by the O(2) site tends to have a higher adsorption energy, making it prone to further dehydrogenation or oligomerization, which can lead to the fast deactivation of the catalyst. On the contrary, the formation of H2 from GaH and hydroxyl group is more straightforward but requires overcoming a higher energy barrier.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在对Ga2O3(100)表面的丙烷脱氢作用的研究中，初始C-H键的活化主要遵循由表面氧原子双配位(O(2))执行的自由基机制。该机制涉及从丙烷中提取氢原子，形成丙基自由基和羟基组（O(2)H）。随后，物理吸附的丙基自由基可以形成丙氧基或丙基镓中间体。接着，通过表面氧或镓站点从丙基、丙氧基或丙基镓中提取另一个氢原子来形成丙烯。O(2)站点的H提取始终具有较低的能量壁垒。然而，水合物中的氢原子以H2或H2O的形式离开表面的挑战很大。此外，通过O(2)站点形成的丙烯由于较高的吸附能，倾向于进一步脱氢或寡聚化，这可能导致催化剂的快速失活。相反，从GaH和羟基形成H2的过程更为直接，但需要克服更高的能量壁垒。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
