I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Elucidation of the active surface and origin of the weak metalhydrogen bond on Ni/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces: a surface science and density functional theory study Abstract Ni/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces were prepared by physical vapor deposition of Ni onto Pt(1 1 1) single crystals at 300 K with and without subsequent annealing at 600 K, and by direct deposition of Ni at 600 K. The structure, composition and chemical properties of these surfaces were investigated using temperature programmed desorption (TPD) of H2, scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), low energy ion scattering spectroscopy (LEIS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and Auger electron spectroscopy (AES). Hydrogen desorbed at a lower temperature from the annealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces than from the clean Pt(1 1 1) surface or thick (>5 ML) Ni surface, suggesting a weaker metalhydrogen bond on the annealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces. In contrast, H2 desorbed from the surface prepared by 300 K nickel deposition at a higher temperature than from Pt(1 1 1) and close to that from the thick Ni surface, suggesting a stronger metalH bond on the unannealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surface. STM, LEIS and XPS results indicated that Ni atoms deposited at 300 K remain on the Pt(1 1 1) surface, but that substantial amounts of Ni atoms diffuse into the bulk in the course of annealing at 600 K. Density functional theory calculations showed that subsurface Ni atoms could leads to a weaker metalhydrogen bond by modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt atoms.
1. Introduction
Ni/Pt alloys have attracted attention as catalysts for several decades, in part due to their enhanced selectivity for partial hydrogenation of dienes and alkynes compared to the pure parent metals [1] ,[2] ,[3] . In bulk, Ni and Pt form a continuous solid solution at high temperatures, with reports of ordered Ni3Pt and NiPt superlattices being formed in samples annealed at 600800 K for two to four months [4] . The surfaces of these alloys exhibit extremely rich, if not pathological, behavior, with varying degrees of surface segregation of one species or the other depending on the alloy composition and crystallographic surface [5] ,[6] . Additionally, oxygen has been reported to induce segregation in Ni/Pt alloys [5] ,[7] and carbon monoxide has been reported to reconstruct Ni films on Pt(1 1 1) [8] . The chemisorption properties of these surfaces is equally interesting; hydrogen is reported to desorb from the Pt-rich Pt50Ni50(1 1 1) alloy surface at a lower temperature than from either Pt(1 1 1) or Ni(1 1 1), while desorbing at an intermediate temperature on the Ni-rich Pt10Ni90(1 1 1) alloy surface [9] . Consequently, it is not surprising that the underlying cause of the modified chemisorption properties and enhanced selectivity of these surfaces has remained shrouded throughout these years.
The approach taken in the present study was to deposit thin films of Ni onto a Pt(1 1 1) surface, and to probe the chemical reactivity of these films by temperature programmed desorption (TPD) experiments. We have identified a weakly bound hydrogen species on the annealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surface. In a previous study, we observed significant differences in the bonding of cyclohexene to annealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces as compared to Pt(1 1 1) and thick Ni films (>5 ML) [10] . These differences can explain the enhanced selectivity for the hydrogenation of cyclohexene to cyclohexane over complete decomposition on the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surface [10] . They may also contribute to the enhanced activity and selectivity for the formation of butene in the hydrodesulfurization (HDS) of thiophene observed on annealed Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces [11] .
In order to understand the structure and composition of the active bimetallic surface, a battery of surface spectroscopic techniques has been utilized in parallel with reaction studies. These include Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), low energy electron diffraction (LEED), low energy ion scattering (LEIS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). Density functional theory (DFT) was also used to investigate trends in the strength of metalhydrogen bonds on these surfaces. This combination of experiments and theory has elucidated the structure of the active Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces as well as the nature of the change in chemical reactivity. We propose that subsurface Ni atoms modify the electronic structure of the surface Pt atoms, giving rise to the weaker metaladsorbate bonds observed in the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) alloy systems.
2. Experimental results and discussion
2.1. Preparation of Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces
Experiments were performed in three different UHV chambers. Temperature programmed desorption experiments were performed in a UHV chamber equipped with AES, LEED optics and a quadrupole mass spectrometer. This chamber was described in detail elsewhere [11] . The UHV chamber for the LEIS and XPS experiments was also described elsewhere [12] .
The STM experiments were performed in a UHV chamber with a base pressure of 2 × 1010 Torr. The chamber was equipped with AES and an Omicron VT scanning tunneling microscope and was described in detail elsewhere [13] . The Pt(1 1 1) crystal (5 N purity) was purchased from Princeton Scientific Corp.; it was oriented to within 0.4 of the (1 1 1) surface and was polished to a roughness of less than 0.03 μm. The crystal size was 10 mm × 5 mm × 1 mm.
Nickel was deposited by physical vapor deposition. The source consisted of Ni wires (Alfa Aesar, 99.95%) wrapped around a resistively heated tungsten wire (Goodfellow, 99.95%). In the STM chamber, a water-cooled stainless steel jacket with an adjustable shutter surrounded the whole assembly. The Ni source in the LEIS chamber was also water-cooled. In the other chambers, a stainless steel shield surrounded the assembly. After sufficient outgassing of the source, the chamber background pressure remained below 7 × 1010 Torr during nickel evaporation. The Ni source was operated at constant current and the amount of Ni deposited on the crystal was controlled by exposure time. Combinations of AES, XPS, LEIS and STM in the different chambers were used to characterize the amount of Ni deposited on the Pt(1 1 1) surface.
The amount of Ni deposition was primarily characterized by the Ni(LMM)/Pt(237 eV) AES ratio. Our earlier designation of the 1 ML Ni/Pt surface was based on the assumption of layer-by-layer growth for Ni and determination of the coverage where the Pt AES intensity was attenuated to 66% of its initial value [14] . This coincidentally occurred at a Ni/Pt AES ratio of 1.0. This will be the characteristic AES ratio of a surface which we refer to as a 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surface. The accuracy of this designation is discussed in more detail in a later section. The surfaces prepared are further categorized in terms of the thermal history of the sample during deposition. Thus, a surface prepared by deposition on a sample at room temperature with a Ni/Pt AES ratio near unity will be referred to as 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K; one prepared by deposition at 600 K to the same AES ratio is designated 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K. Surfaces prepared by deposition at room temperature and subsequent annealing to near 600 K for an amount of time, equivalent to the deposition time with a Ni/Pt AES ratio near unity after annealing, are referred to as 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K.
2.2. Temperature programmed desorption
Fig. 1a shows H2 TPD spectra from a clean Pt(1 1 1) surface, a 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surface, and a thick Ni film (>5 ML) on Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surface, after saturation exposures (50 L) to H2 at 120 K. H2 desorbs from the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surface at temperatures lower than those on either the clean Pt(1 1 1) surface or the thick Ni film.
Fig. 1b shows H2 TPD spectra from another 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surface, a 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K surface, and a 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K surface. H2 desorbs from both the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K and 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K surface at approximately the same temperature, in both cases lower than from the clean Pt(1 1 1) surface. This suggests that the two Ni/Pt surfaces that had seen higher temperatures (600 K) during deposition or annealing have similar chemical properties. In a later section, it will be shown that these two surfaces have very similar physical structures, and that the topmost surface layer contains substantial amounts of Pt. In contrast, H2 desorbs from the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K surface at a temperature that is higher than from the clean Pt(1 1 1) surface and slightly higher than from the thick Ni film on Pt(1 1 1). The 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K surface was richer in Ni than the 600 K bimetallic surfaces examined in this study, as will be shown below.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. (a) Temperature programmed desorption of a saturation exposure of H2 on Pt(1 1 1), 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K, and a thick Ni film on Pt(1 1 1) 600 K. (b) Temperature programmed desorption of a saturation exposure of H2 on 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K, 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K, and 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K.
Since the dissociative adsorption of H2 on Ni(1 1 1) and Pt(1 1 1) is not an activated process [15] , the desorption temperature of H2 from these surfaces should, in principle, be related to the respective metalH bond strengths. The barrier for desorption in this case is identical to the heat of dissociative adsorption of H2, and is equal to the gas-phase dissociation energy (calculated by DFT in this work as 4.545 eV, literature 4.522 eV [16] ) minus twice the metalH bond strength. H2 desorbs from Pt(1 1 1) at a lower temperature because the PtH bond strength (calculated by DFT in this work as 2.7 eV) is weaker than the NiH bond (calculated by DFT in this work as 2.82 eV). If one assumes that H2 dissociation on the bimetallic surfaces is also not activated, then the lower desorption temperature from the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K and 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K surfaces indicates a weaker metalH bond on these surfaces than on either the thick Ni film or the Pt(1 1 1) surface. In contrast, the higher H2 desorption temperature from the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K surface suggests a stronger metalH bond on this surface (similar to the NiH bond in strength). In our TPD data, we observed similar yields of H2 from all of these surfaces for the same exposures, suggesting that if adsorption is activated on the bimetallic surfaces, it is only weakly so. The primary motivation for the more detailed studies of these surfaces is to identify the structure and composition of these Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces and the origin of the differences in metalH bond strengths.
The kinetic parameters for desorption are typically determined by a Redhead analysis of the peak desorption temperatures observed in a TPD experiment as a function of coverage at a constant heating rate [17] . The desorption of H2 from Pt(1 1 1) however, has defied this straightforward interpretation for almost 30 years, with reports of multiple binding sites, pre-exponential factors varying over 6 orders of magnitude, desorption barriers varying by factors of 2 and even disagreement on the order of desorption [18] ,[19] ,[20] ,[21] . Our results for H2 desorption from Ni/Pt surfaces were also not compatible with a single, second order desorption event. However, one can still obtain an estimate of the second order desorption barrier (Ed) from the peak desorption temperature (Tp) for the saturation exposures (θ0=1) by solving the following non-linear equation, derived from the Redhead equation for second order desorption:(1) In this equation, Ad=1013 cm2 s1 and is a lumped parameter containing a typical second order pre-exponential factor, 102 s1, and site density, 1015 sites/cm2. The results are tabulated in Table 1 and compared to results obtained from single crystal NiPt(1 1 1) alloys [9] .
Table 1. Comparison of heats of dissociative adsorption on Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces determined from TPD experiments, obtained from literature and calculated by DFT (spin-polarized calculations) in this work Surface Tp (K) ΔHads,H2 (kcal/mol), TPD ΔHads,H2 (kcal/mol), literature [9] ΔHads,H2 (kcal/mol), DFT Pt(1 1 1) 285 17.6 16.519 22.6 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K 234241 14.6 1315 13.4 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K 353 21.9 N/A 32.9 Thick Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 346 21.5 N/A N/A Ni(1 1 1) N/A N/A 1922 26.3
2.3. Scanning tunneling microscopy
STM was used to study the growth of Ni films on Pt(1 1 1) under different deposition conditions. Since the desorption of H2 showed similar behavior on films deposited at room temperature and subsequently annealed to 600 K and films that were directly deposited at 600 K ( Fig. 1 ), we have examined the surface structures for both deposition conditions.
2.3.1. Room temperature deposition and annealing
As shown in Fig. 2 , the growth mode of Ni on Pt(1 1 1) at room temperature begins with Ni islands initially nucleating at the step edges of the Pt surface for our deposition conditions. Before the first monolayer is completed, however, a second layer began to form on top of the first layer ( Fig. 2b ). At higher coverages, a third layer is formed on top of the second layer, before either the first or second has filled in ( Fig. 2c ). Upon annealing the deposited films to approximately 640 K, the surface in each image became fairly homogenous, and all of the features present in the islands at room temperature disappeared (shown in Fig. 3 ). There are finer features in the images that change with Ni coverage, which will be discussed in detail below.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. (a) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 20 min at 330 K. The coverage is estimated to be 0.35 ML and the Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.33. (b) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 40 min at 330 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.7. (c) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 60 min at 330 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 1.35.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. (a) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of the surface in Fig. 1a . after annealing to 640 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.22. (b) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of the surface in Fig. 1b after annealing to 640 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.58. (c) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of the surface in Fig. 1c after annealing to 640 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.82.
At the lowest Ni coverages, the fractional coverage was determined by measuring the area of the Ni islands, and then dividing by the area of the entire image.
Fig. 2a shows a 0.35 fractional coverage of Ni deposited at approximately 330 K for 20 min. At the lowest Ni coverages, the fractional coverage measured was nearly equal to the Ni(LMM)/Pt(237 eV) AES ratio by coincidence; the Ni/Pt AES ratio of the surface in Fig. 2a was 0.33. The STM experiments of the present study showed that for an AES ratio near unity, the Ni film is clearly not a uniform monolayer either as deposited at 300 K or after annealing to 640 K, or when deposited at 640 K. We will continue to use the 1 ML designation however, as this AES ratio characterizes surfaces that show unique chemical properties compared to pure Pt(1 1 1) and Ni(1 1 1) [14] .
At the low coverage of Fig. 2a , Ni atoms formed islands that were a single atomic layer thick and nucleated at the step edges of the Pt surface. Since the islands do not uniformly cover the step edges, we conclude that Ni adatoms are mobile on both the surface and at the step edge until another Ni adatom at the step edge is encountered, at which point nucleation or sticking occurs. It is very interesting to note the clear interface between the Ni islands and the Pt step next to them. This observation is at odds with reports that Ni adatoms are readily incorporated into Pt(1 1 1) step edges [22] . The work of Gambardella et al. was done at lower coverages of Ni (0.2 ML) on a Pt(9 9 7) surface, which is vicinal to the (1 1 1) surface and may be more susceptible to alloy formation at lower temperatures due to higher step concentrations. Even at coverages as low as 0.15 ML (not shown), we observed clear Ni islandPt step boundaries, suggesting that low coverage is not the reason for the differences observed.
Closer inspection of the Ni islands in Fig. 2a shows a network of fine lines. Similar features were reported for Co films on Pt(1 1 1) [23] and for Cu films on Ru(0 0 0 1) [24] and are attributed to dislocation networks that form to relieve the strain caused by the lattice mismatch between the two metals. In the case of Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces, the NiNi bond length (2.49 Å) is about 11% less than the PtPt bond length (2.79 Å).
Upon annealing to 640 K, all of the island features disappeared, as shown in Fig. 3a . The surface appeared quite uniform, although the step edges were considerably less straight than on a clean Pt(1 1 1) surface (not shown). The Ni/Pt AES ratio decreased significantly from 0.33 to 0.22, suggesting that some of the Ni had diffused into the bulk of the crystal. Since we were unable to distinguish Ni from Pt on the annealed surface, we could not determine the surface composition from these STM images.
Fig. 2b shows a higher coverage of Ni on Pt(1 1 1), with a Ni/Pt AES ratio of 0.70. The fractional coverage was not determined using STM in this case, because there were clearly multi-layers of Ni on the surface. The clear interface between the Ni islands and the Pt steps was still visible, with large regions of the Pt steps uncovered by Ni. The fine network of lines in the first layer was more prominent than in Fig. 2a and is shown in detail in Fig. 4 . While it is not obvious in Fig. 2b , the network of lines existed in the second layer of Ni as well.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. STM image (30 nm × 30 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 40 min at 330 K.
Upon annealing to 640 K, the Ni/Pt AES ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.58, and again all of the fine features of the islands disappeared, as shown in Fig. 3b . The surface appeared fairly uniform, with many small, light, worm-like features. We believe these light features are the beginning of larger features that are present on surfaces with more Ni in them, as shown in Fig. 5b .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. (a) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 40 min at 640 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.65. (b) STM image (100 nm × 100 nm) taken at 300 K of Ni deposited for 60 min at 640 K. The Ni/Pt AES ratio was 0.91.
Fig. 2c shows yet a higher coverage of Ni, with a Ni/Pt AES ratio of 1.35, obtained by 60 min of Ni deposition at 330 K. A third layer of Ni islands had begun to form, despite the fact that the first and second layers of Ni did not appear to be completely filled in and there were still some regions in the image that could be interpreted as the clean Pt surface. At this coverage, superlattices had begun to form in the third layer. Similar superlattices were reported for thin films of Ni [25] and Cu [24] on Ru(0 0 0 1) and were also attributed to the lattice mismatch between the film and substrate.
Upon annealing this surface to 640 K, the Ni/Pt AES ratio decreased from 1.35 to 0.82 and the fine features of the islands again disappeared, as shown in Fig. 3c . A new faint network of lines appeared in the image. These lines appeared to have three primary orientations, each approximately 120 apart from each other. This network of lines exhibited a much larger characteristic size than the networks observed in Fig. 2a and b . Since alloys frequently adopt their own lattice constants, which are composition dependent, misfit dislocations between the alloy layers and substrate layers may result in long-range height variations as observed here [26] . Alternatively, these could be regions rich in one of the components.
2.3.2. High temperature deposition
For comparison, Ni films were also deposited at 640 K.
Fig. 5a shows a surface prepared by 40 min of Ni deposition at 640 K; the Ni/Pt AES ratio is 0.65. The composition as determined by AES is very similar to the composition achieved by annealing for the same time a film deposited at near room temperature, which resulted in a Ni/Pt AES ratio of 0.58 (see Fig. 3b ). We note specifically the similarity between the small, light, worm-like features.
Fig. 5b shows a surface prepared by 60 min of Ni deposited at 640 K with a Ni/Pt AES ratio of 0.91. A long-range network of lines with three primary orientations, each 120 apart from each other, is clearly visible. The network of lines in Fig. 5b is more clearly defined than the network of lines observed in Fig. 3c , but otherwise the surface images are quite similar.
In summary, we conclude that the surfaces prepared by deposition at 300 K followed by annealing to 640 K are very similar in appearance to surfaces prepared by deposition at 640 K. This is significant, as it was previously reported that these two surface preparations produced surfaces with similar chemical properties [14] , and is consistent with the similarity of the H2 TPD spectra from the two surfaces, shown in Fig. 1 .
2.4. Low energy ion scattering spectroscopy and XPS
To further elucidate the surface composition, LEIS (1 keV He+) and grazing emission XPS were used to monitor the surface composition of Ni/Pt(1 1 1) following deposition of Ni at 300 and 600 K. He+ ions have a very high neutralization probability, and are extremely unlikely to survive more than a single collision. Thus, any ions that penetrate the first layer are very likely to become neutralized, and will not usually be detected in the experiment. Consequently, LEIS is expected to be highly surface sensitive, and should give results that are representative of only the first layer of atoms on the sample [27] .
The surface composition was determined from the LEIS experiments by first normalizing each signal by a sensitivity factor determined from the experiment. For example, the He+ scattering intensity from a clean Pt(1 1 1) surface was used to normalize the Pt signals for all of the surfaces. The Ni sensitivity factor was determined from a fully Ni-covered surface. The fractional coverage was then calculated from these normalized signals.
Fig. 6 a shows the Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS peak intensity ratio as a function of deposition time at 300 and 600 K. The Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS peak intensity ratio corresponding to our nominal 1 ML designation was determined in a separate UHV chamber equipped with both AES and XPS. The ratio was determined to be approximately 1.15, as shown in Fig. 6a and b . The Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS ratio increases faster at 300 K than at 600 K, suggesting more accumulation of Ni in the near surface region at 300 K than at 600 K. The Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS ratio is not a linear function of Ni coverage, but at low coverages it is an indicator of the surface composition.
Fig. 6b shows the fractional Ni LEIS intensity vs. the Ni/Pt XPS ratio following deposition of Ni at 300 and 600 K. At 300 K, the normalized Ni LEIS intensity approaches unity more rapidly than it does at 600 K. Disregarding the possibility of a difference in sticking coefficient of Ni at these two temperatures, these results could be explained if some of the Ni were diffusing into the bulk crystal at 600 K, resulting in fewer surface Ni atoms for a given time of deposition.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. (a) Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS ratio vs. deposition time at 300 and 600 K. The lines through the symbols are from a parabolic fitting function, and serve primarily to guide the eye. (b) Normalized LEIS intensity for Ni vs. Ni 2p/Pt 4f XPS ratio for deposition at 300 and 600 K. The lines through the symbols are fitted from exponential functions, and serve primarily to guide the eye. The dashed lines indicate our 1 ML designation of Ni deposited onto Pt(1 1 1).
We also examined the surface composition as a function of temperature by LEIS and AES. For the LEIS experiments, Ni was deposited at 300 K, and the initial coverage of Ni was approximately 1 ML. The LEIS analyzer was fixed at an energy corresponding to He+ scattering from either Ni or Pt, while the sample was heated continuously at a linear rate of approximately 9 K/s. The Pt and Ni intensities were measured in separate experiments, and the LEIS ratio of Ni/Pt intensities was the same at the beginning of each experiment. The results are summarized in Fig. 7 . For the LEIS experiment ( Fig. 7a ), after a small initial increase in the Ni intensity, possibly due to the desorption of contaminant H2, the Ni intensity decreased significantly with increasing temperature until it became nearly undetectable by 900 K. There were corresponding increases in the Pt intensities as the annealing temperature increased.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. (a) LEIS intensity for Ni and Pt vs. sample temperature. The normalization procedure is described in the text. (b) Ni/Pt AES ratio vs. temperature for different initial coverages.We observed similar trends in the AES experiment ( Fig. 7b ), which were performed at three different initial coverages. In these experiments, significant decreases in the Ni/Pt AES ratio occurred at around 700 K, with Ni being undetectable at around 900 K, in good agreement with the LEIS results. It is unlikely that Ni atoms desorb from the crystal at these low temperatures, and consequently we conclude that Ni diffuses into the bulk of the crystal at elevated temperatures. In a separate experiment, we monitored the Ni/Pt AES ratio as a function of time while annealing the sample at approximately 650 K (data not presented). We observed a monotonic decrease in the Ni/Pt AES ratio from 0.9 to 0.2 over a 20 h time period, indicating a continuous diffusion of Ni into the bulk Pt(1 1 1) crystal.Finally, we have compared normal and grazing emission XPS on the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces prepared by deposition at 300 and 600 K ( Fig. 8 ). In the normal emission experiment, the sample surface is normal to the analyzer axis and the X-ray beam is incident on the surface at an angle approximately 60 from the surface normal. In the grazing emission experiment, the analyzer axis is at an angle of 60 with respect to the surface normal, and the X-ray beam is nearly incident with the surface normal. Therefore, the grazing emission experiments should be more sensitive to the near surface region than the normal emission experiments. At 300 K, the Ni intensity in the grazing emission spectrum was about 1.35 (based on areas indicated in Fig. 8 ) times larger than the Ni intensity in the normal emission spectrum ( Fig. 8a ). This indicated that Ni atoms were preferentially located near the surface. At 600 K ( Fig. 8b ), the grazing to normal intensity ratio was 0.74, suggesting a more isotropic composition of the near-surface region; the Ni had diffused into the subsurface layers, and there was no longer as clear a distinction in composition for different electron emission angles.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 8. (a) Normal and grazing emission XPS for Ni 2p for deposition at 300 K. (b) Normal and grazing emission XPS for Ni 2p for deposition at 600 K. The shading represents typical areas considered in the analysis presented in the text.
The ratios between Ni 2p and Pt 4f XPS intensities showed a similar trend. For the 300 K deposition, the normal emission Ni 2p/Pt 4f ratio was 0.82, while for grazing emission it was 1.95, indicating again there was more Ni in the near surface region for deposition at 300 K. At 600 K, the normal emission ratio was 0.71, while the grazing emission ratio was 0.77. Thus, for deposition at 600 K, the surface is not as rich in Ni as the surface prepared by deposition at 300 K, or alternatively, the 600 K surface is enriched in Pt compared to the 300 K surface.
3. Density functional theory
DFT was used to explore the effect of Ni overlayers, subsurface Ni, and the effect of surface/bulk alloying of Ni and Pt on the metalhydrogen binding energy. The Dacapo-2.6 code [28] was employed for all calculations presented here; Dacapo uses a plane wave basis set with pseudopotentials to represent the core electrons and periodic boundary conditions. In performing such calculations, one must make many decisions about various parameters that affect both the absolute and relative accuracy of the results. Our approach was to find a set of parameters that was consistent with and reasonably reproduced properties calculated in the literature, and then to use the same set of parameters for all other calculations.
All calculations were therefore performed with 2 × 2 supercells with three-layer slabs of four atoms in each layer, a plane wave cutoff of 350 eV, and 18 Chadi-Cohen k-points with maximum symmetry applied to reduce them. Six to seven layers of vacuum separated the slabs, and a dipole-correction scheme was employed to electrostatically decouple the slabs, as implemented in the software. Because Ni is magnetic, spin-polarization could be important in capturing the electronic structure. However, it also nearly doubles the calculation time; therefore, for computational efficiency the spin-polarization was not routinely accounted for. In some cases it was included afterward to measure the magnitude of its effect, and it was determined that while spin-polarization affected the quantitative results, it did not affect our qualitative conclusions. The theoretical lattice constants for Pt and Ni were used, as reported in the CAMPOS pseudopotential database [29] . This corresponded to surface metalmetal bond lengths of 2.83 and 2.49 Å for Pt and Ni, respectively. In the bimetallic slabs, the lattice constant for Pt was used, and the Ni atoms were incorporated by replacing Pt atoms in the slab. The Ni lattice constant was only used for the slab containing only Ni atoms. The remaining parameters were set by default by the software, and included the PW91 functional for self-consistent electronic structure calculations, an electronic temperature (kbT) of 0.2 for speeding up the convergence (with the final results extrapolated to 0 K), the force convergence limit of 0.05 eV/Å and selection of the pseudopotentials. We note that these conditions are consistent with other calculations of similar nature in the literature for metalhydrogen binding energies (HBE) [30] . Overlayer atoms were assumed to occupy epitaxial positions, and the slabs were typically allowed to relax to their lowest energy configuration. Individual calculation details will be discussed as needed in the following sections.
In the calculations that follow, H atoms were only considered at 0.25 ML coverages, and only in the fcc binding site of the surface. The slab atom ionic positions were frozen, and a hydrogen atom was placed near the fcc site and allowed to relax to the lowest energy configuration. Therefore, adsorbate-induced relaxations of the surface were not accounted for. The HBE value was calculated as the difference in total energy between the slab with hydrogen on it and the bare slab plus a gas-phase H atom, without including zero-point energy differences. The spin-polarized energy of a gas-phase H atom was calculated in a large 10 Å supercell and was determined to be 13.63 eV. This result is slightly lower in energy than those reported in the literature, and the analytical ground state energy of 13.61 eV [31] . This minor offset will not be important in comparing HBEs for different surfaces, since it has the same effect on all HBEs calculated.
3.1. DFT results and discussion
Table 2 summarizes the model surfaces considered, ranging from pure Pt and Ni, to various surface/bulk alloys and cases containing subsurface Ni atoms. In addition to calculating the value of the HBE, the local density of states in the surface was examined in each case. The density of states was decomposed into contributions from different atomic orbitals by projection of the plane waves onto an atomic orbital basis set, as implemented by the Dacapo software. 1 This allowed us to determine the structure of the d-band, which has been shown to be critical in the bonding of adsorbates to transition metal surfaces [32] . Representative calculated d-bands are shown in Fig. 9a . We observed a roughly inverse proportionality between the d-band center and its mean squared width (second moment). The subsurface Ni atoms tended to increase the intensity of low energy states at the expense of higher energy states in the surface Pt atoms, thus lowering the average energy of the surface Pt d-band. In contrast, the Ni-monolayer d-band was narrower than even the Ni(1 1 1) d-band and was higher in energy than either the Ni or Pt slab. A more thorough analysis is beyond the scope of this paper, and will be the subject of future communications.
Table 2. Description of model surfaces used in the calculations Label Description Pt Pt slab, PtPt bond distance=2.83 Å Ni Ni slab, NiNi bond distance=2.49 Å Ni1Pt3 One Ni atom in the surface of a Pt slab, 4 atoms/layer MM bond distance=2.83 Å Ni3Pt1 Three Ni atoms in the surface of a Pt slab, 4 atoms/layer MM bond distance=2.83 Å Ni-monolayer Epitaxial Ni-monolayer on a Pt slab MM bond distance=2.83 Å PtNiPt Sandwich structure with a monolayer of Ni in the second layer of a Pt slab MM bond distance=2.83 Å Download: Download full-size image Fig. 9. (a) Calculated surface d-band DOS for Ni(1 1 1), Pt(1 1 1), and Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces. (b) Calculated hydrogen binding energies vs. the d-band center of the surface metal atoms for relaxed slabs and unrelaxed slabs. In each case, the slab is frozen in the HBE calculation, as described in the text. The unrelaxed slabs are included to demonstrate the effect of relaxation on the HBE.
The calculated HBEs are summarized in Fig. 9b , where they are plotted against the d-band center (relative to the Fermi level) for each particular surface, for relaxed and unrelaxed slabs. There are several points to discuss about these results. First, there is an approximately linear correlation between the HBE and surface d-band center, as predicted from the theory of chemisorption by Hammer and Nrskov [33] for both relaxed and unrelaxed surfaces.
Relaxation had a negligible effect on the calculated HBEs for the pure metal slabs (Pt and Ni). However, the calculated HBEs on the bimetallic slabs showed a significant sensitivity to relaxation, as did the center of the d-band. In each case, relaxation reduced the magnitude of the HBE, with a corresponding change in the d-band center. In the discussions that follow, except where noted, only the HBEs calculated on relaxed slabs will be considered.Second, incorporation of Ni into the Pt surface layer increased the HBE on that surface, with all such surfaces (e.g., Ni1Pt3, Ni3Pt1) showing a higher HBE than the Pt slab. A corresponding upshift in the d-band center was observed for each surface. The full Ni-monolayer showed a HBE that was slightly stronger than a Ni slab. This is consistent with the TPD observations on the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K surface, where it was observed that hydrogen desorbed at a temperature close to that from the thick Ni film. The composition of this surface was determined by LEIS to be greater than 90% Ni ( Fig. 6b ). However, this HBE is not consistent with our experimental TPD observations on the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surfaces, where we observed that H2 desorbed at a lower temperature from the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 300 K/600 K and 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surfaces than from either thick Ni films or Pt(1 1 1), suggesting a weaker HBE on these bimetallic surfaces ( Fig. 1 ). We note that the LEIS results showed this surface composition to be lower in Ni than the corresponding surface prepared at 300 K, which suggested the presence of a significant number of subsurface Ni atoms ( Fig. 6a ). Thus, the DFT surface Ni-monolayer model is not representative of the Ni/Pt surfaces prepared at 600 K.
To address the presence of subsurface Ni, we considered the stability of these surfaces. Surface segregation of Pt in Ni/Pt(1 1 1) alloys is reported widely in the literature [2] ,[34] ,[35] ,[36] . Pt has a lower surface energy than Ni, and consequently it tends to segregate to the surface. For a Pt0.5Ni0.5 alloy, it has been reported that the surface is 88% Pt, the second layer is 91% Ni, and the third layer is 65% Pt [2] . From our calculations, the PtNiPt sandwich structure is 0.65 eV/Ni atom more stable than the Ni-monolayer structure. The segregation energy of a Ni impurity on a Pt(1 1 1) surface was calculated by Ruban et al. to be 0.43 eV/Ni atom, indicating it is more stable in the bulk than on the surface [37] . Finally, our STM, LEIS and AES/XPS measurements strongly support Ni diffusion into the subsurface layers at 600640 K. Consequently, the models with subsurface Ni may better describe the 1 ML Ni/Pt(1 1 1) 600 K surfaces. These slabs show HBEs that are weaker than those on both Ni and Pt, consistent with our TPD observations.
For comparison, we calculated the heats of dissociative adsorption from the calculated HBEs as described above. The calculated H2 dissociation energy was used (4.545 eV) in all of the calculations. The results are tabulated in Table 1 , and show a good agreement with the results from the TPD analysis and with those reported in the literature. DFT tends to systematically overestimate the heats of dissociative adsorption compared to the experimental values, but this behavior is well documented [38] , and the trends are expected to be valid.
Another significant issue is the effect of spin-polarization on the calculated HBEs. To explore this effect, as well as that of simultaneous slab/adsorbate relaxation, we repeated several of the calculations with relaxation of the first layer of the slab and spin-polarization. These calculations took substantially longer to complete than the unpolarized, frozen three-layer slab calculations. The results are summarized in Table 3 . The primary effect of spin-polarization and the slab relaxation was to reduce the value of the HBE in most cases, but the relative HBE values remained in the order of Ni-monolayer > Ni > Pt > PtNiPt.
Table 3. Comparison of HBEs calculated by unpolarized and spin-polarized calculations Empty Cell Unpolarized, relaxed, three-layer slab HBE (eV) Spin-polarized, relaxed three-layer slab HBE (eV) Pt 2.73 2.76 Ni-monolayer 3.06 2.99 PtNiPt 2.58 2.56 Ni 2.94 2.84 In the unpolarized calculations, the slabs were first relaxed, then frozen before calculating the HBE. For the spin-polarized calculations, the bottom two layers of the slab were frozen, while the top layer was allowed to relax in addition to the H atom, as described in the text.
Finally, we did not address the possibility that the lattice constant of the alloyed slabs could change. The lattice constant of Ni/Pt alloys varies nearly linearly between the lattice constants of the pure metal components, with only a very weak second order dependence on composition [4] . It has been reported that the lattice constant of a Pt0.78Ni0.22 alloy is 1.8% smaller than pure Pt, while the lattice constant for a Pt0.5Ni0.5 alloy is 4.3% smaller than that of pure Pt [2] . It has also been reported that the lattice constant of Co/Pt alloys formed by deposition of Co on Pt(1 1 1) surfaces followed by annealing is slightly lower than the Pt(1 1 1) lattice constant [26] . This effect could be considered by performing the calculations with a smaller lattice constant. In the early stages of the work, we carried out unrelaxed slab calculations with the experimental PtPt bond distance, 2.77 Å, which can be considered similar to a lattice reduction of about 2% compared to the theoretical lattice constant used. Consistent with the findings of Mavrikakis et al., the values of HBE decrease, due to the downshift in the d-band center caused by the increased overlap of the d-orbitals [39] . The results are tabulated in Table 4 . We note specifically that the general trend in HBEs is unchanged, but merely shifted.
Table 4. Comparison of the effect of lattice constant change on the HBE Unrelaxed, non-spin-polarized slab HBE for lattice parameter=2.77 Å (eV) HBE for lattice parameter=2.83 Å (eV) Pt 2.61 2.72 Ni1Pt3 2.78 2.86 Ni3Pt1 3.02 3.07 Ni-monolayer 3.16 3.15 PtNiPt 2.58 2.70 In conclusion, DFT modeling results suggest that subsurface Ni atoms are responsible for the novel activity of the 1 ML Ni/Pt 600 K surfaces by modification of the electronic states of the surface Pt atoms. These surface and subsurface effects have been reported for Co/Pt bimetallic surfaces before [26] . It was reported that Co in the surface of the alloy resulted in stronger binding of carbon monoxide to the Pt atoms due to an upshift in the d-band center of the surface Pt, while Co in the second layer resulted in weaker CO bonding to the Pt atoms due to a downshift in the surface d-band center [26] . CO has recently been shown to bind more weakly to the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) alloy surface (which is Pt-enriched, with a Ni rich second layer) than either clean Ni or Pt surfaces [40] , consistent with our calculated downshift in the surface Pt d-band center for the PtNiPt slab.
4. Conclusions
The existence of subsurface Ni in Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces was strongly suggested by the LEIS, STM and XPS/AES experiments. It was further supported by DFT calculations showing that subsurface Ni in Pt(1 1 1) is more stable than surface Ni. Subsurface Ni was shown to weaken the binding of H atoms on Ni/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces by modification of the electronic states of the surface Pt atoms.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Provide a comprehensive overview of the physical vapor deposition (PVD) technique, focusing on thermal evaporation for creating bimetallic surfaces in ultra-high vacuum (UHV) environments. Include details on the experimental setup, critical process parameters, and specific measures to ensure the deposition of high-purity metal overlayers. How does this method facilitate surface science studies, and what are the key considerations for achieving optimal results?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 