<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific quotes about how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, nor does it discuss innovative strategies to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts. However, it does mention that the addition of tin to platinum-based catalysts can modify both the platinum active phase and the support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization reactions, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing the acidity of the support, and facilitating the diffusion of the coke species from the metal surface to the support. The reducibility of SnO2 depends largely on the interaction with the support, strong interaction making the reduction more difficult. However, Pt in close proximity assists with the reduction of Sn. The formation of a platinum-tin alloy and/or the partial covering of the platinum particles by tin species results in the creation of smaller platinum ensembles. Tin selectively covers low coordination platinum sites (such as steps, corners, edges, and defects), which are believed to be responsible for the hydrogenolysis reaction. The sintering of Pt nanoparticles is retarded with the addition of Sn. Coke precursors prefer to adsorb on large Pt ensembles, and thus the addition of Sn facilitates the migration of these precursors from the PtSn surface to the support, effectively reducing the detrimental effects of coke deposition. Alloyed metallic Sn or Sn2+ species in close contact with platinum are able to transfer electrons to the 5d band of platinum atoms, which alters the adsorptive and catalytic properties of the metal. The interaction of promoters with platinum can be assessed by measuring the heat of adsorption of distinct probe molecules through microcalorimetric methods. DFT calculations have shown that the addition of Sn also reduces the heat of adsorption of hydrogen on the PtSn (111) surface, which suggests that the diffusion of hydrogen atoms is more facile on the latter than on a Pt (111) surface.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应如何协同影响催化性能的具体引用，也没有讨论利用这种相互作用设计比传统单金属催化剂更高效、更选择性、更可调的催化系统的创新策略。但是，它确实提到向铂基催化剂中添加锡可以同时修改铂活性相和载体，抑制氢解和异构化反应，最小化金属烧结，中和载体的酸性，并促进焦炭物种从金属表面到载体的扩散。SnO2的还原性在很大程度上取决于与载体的相互作用，强烈的相互作用使还原更加困难。然而，邻近的Pt有助于Sn的还原。形成铂-锡合金和/或部分覆盖铂颗粒的锡物种导致形成较小的铂集合体。锡选择性地覆盖低配位的铂位点（如台阶、角落、边缘和缺陷），这些位点被认为对氢解反应负责。添加Sn会抑制Pt纳米颗粒的烧结。焦炭前体倾向于在大的Pt集合体上吸附，因此添加Sn有助于这些前体从PtSn表面迁移到载体上，从而有效地减少焦炭沉积的不利影响。与铂原子紧密接触的合金金属Sn或Sn2+物种能够向铂原子的5d带转移电子，从而改变金属的吸附和催化性质。通过微热量法测量不同探针分子的吸附热可以评估促进剂与铂的相互作用。DFT计算表明，添加Sn也会降低PtSn(111)表面上氢的吸附热，这表明氢原子在后者的扩散比在Pt(111)表面上更容易。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
