<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on how same-valence dopants (SVDs) and high-valence dopants (HVDs) influence the catalytic properties of different metal oxides. However, it does discuss the effects of various dopants on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in ceria and magnesia, which can be related to catalytic properties. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) such as La and Y in ceria and Li and Na in magnesia lower the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation both near and far from the dopant. High-valence dopants in MgO(001) slightly increase the energy of vacancy formation next to them, with the exception of Ga, which behaves differently because it is reduced when the vacancy is formed. Doping CeO2(111) with Pt, Ru, Zr, Nb, Ta, Mo, and W has no long-range effect on the energy of vacancy formation. These dopants affect the energy of vacancy formation next to them by roughly the same amount, even though they have very different chemical properties. The lack of correlation between the strength of the dopant-oxygen bond in the oxide of the dopant and the effect of the dopant on the energy of vacancy formation is explained, in part, by the ability of the Ce ions to change easily their formal charge from +4 to +3, giving ceria great flexibility in adjusting to the extra electrons provided by these dopants. The effect of high-valence dopants on the oxygen-vacancy formation depends qualitatively on whether the host oxide is reducible or irreducible. The effect of high-valence dopants on the oxygen-vacancy formation in MgO is predictable on the basis of a dopant's valence. Challenges persist in formulating general predictive rules for dopant behavior, considering factors such as Lewis acid-base interactions and the nature of the host oxide (reducible vs. irreducible), because the effect of dopants on the energy of vacancy formation does not always follow simple rules based on the strength of their bond to oxygen and on their valence in their own oxides.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于同价掺杂剂(SVDs)和高价掺杂剂(HVDs)如何影响不同金属氧化物的催化性质的具体信息。然而,它确实讨论了各种掺杂剂对氧化铈和氧化镁中氧空位形成能的影响,这可以与催化性质相关。低价掺杂剂(LVDs),如铈中的La和Y以及镁中的Li和Na,降低了靠近和远离掺杂剂的氧空位形成能。在MgO(001)中,高价掺杂剂略微增加了靠近它们的空位形成能,除了Ga,因为当形成空位时,Ga被还原,表现得不同。掺杂CeO2(111)与Pt、Ru、Zr、Nb、Ta、Mo和W没有对氧空位形成能产生远程效应。尽管这些掺杂剂具有非常不同的化学性质,但它们对靠近它们的空位形成能的影响大致相同。掺杂剂与其氧化物中氧之间的键强度与其对空位形成能的影响之间缺乏相关性,部分原因是Ce离子能够轻松地将其形式电荷从+4改变为+3,从而使铈具有很大的灵活性,以适应这些掺杂剂提供的额外电子。高价掺杂剂对氧空位形成的影响在可还原或不可还原的宿主氧化物上定性地取决于。在MgO上,高价掺杂剂对氧空位形成的影响可以根据掺杂剂的价态进行预测。在考虑路易斯酸碱相互作用和宿主氧化物的性质(可还原与不可还原)时,制定一般预测规则仍然存在挑战,因为掺杂剂对空位形成能的影响并不总是遵循基于它们与氧的键强度和它们在自己的氧化物中的价态的简单规则。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
