<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on how same-valence dopants (SVDs) and high-valence dopants (HVDs) influence the catalytic properties of different metal oxides. However, it does discuss the effects of various dopants on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in ceria and magnesia. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) such as La and Y in ceria and Li and Na in magnesia lower the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation both near and far from the dopant. High-valence dopants in MgO(001) such as Al, Sc, and Y slightly increase the energy of vacancy formation next to them, with the exception of Ga, which behaves differently because it is reduced when the vacancy is formed. The effect of high-valence dopants on the oxygen-vacancy formation depends qualitatively on whether the host oxide is reducible or irreducible. Doping CeO2(111) with Pt, Ru, Zr, Nb, Ta, Mo, and W has no long-range effect on the energy of vacancy formation. These dopants affect the energy of vacancy formation next to them by roughly the same amount, even though they have very different chemical properties. The lack of correlation between the strength of the dopant-oxygen bond in the oxide of the dopant and the effect of the dopant on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is explained, in part, by the ability of the Ce ions to change easily their formal charge from +4 to +3. This gives ceria great flexibility in adjusting to the extra electrons provided by these dopants. The effect of dopants on the oxygen-vacancy formation in MgO is predictable on the basis of a dopant's valence. The effect of high-valence dopants on the oxygen-vacancy formation depends qualitatively on whether the host oxide is reducible or irreducible. The effect of dopants on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in the surface of reducible CeO2(111) doped with Pt, Ru, Zr, Ta, Nb, Mo, or W is difficult to understand. They all lower the energy of vacancy formation by a similar amount, and they all manage to shift the oxygen atoms away from Ce to create dopant-oxygen bonds that are much shorter than the CeO bonds in ceria. This similarity is puzzling considering that the oxides of these dopants have vastly different enthalpies of formation. An examination of the projected density of states (PDOS) shows that W and Mo donate two electrons to ceria to reduce two Ce atoms, and Ta and Nb donate one electron to reduce one Ce atom. After this electron donation, these dopants have only four electrons available for making bonds, just like the Ce atom they replace. The other dopants (Ru, Zr, and Pt) do not donate electrons to reduce Ce, and therefore, they also have four electrons for making bonds. We speculate that this is one the reasons for the similarity of their effect on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation. The other reason is that their bonds with oxygen, in their own oxides, is much shorter than the CeO bond in CeO2. When one of these dopants replaces a Ce atom, it pulls the oxygen atoms in the oxide surface toward it and away from cerium. By doing this, they weaken the bond of the oxygen to the surface.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供具体信息关于同价掺杂剂(SVDs)和高价掺杂剂(HVDs)如何影响不同金属氧化物的催化性能。然而,它确实讨论了各种掺杂剂对氧化铈和氧化镁中氧空位形成能的影响。低价掺杂剂(LVDs)如铈中的La和Y以及氧化镁中的Li和Na降低了靠近和远离掺杂剂的氧空位形成能。MgO(001)中的高价掺杂剂如Al,Sc和Y略微增加了靠近它们的空位形成能,除了Ga,因为当形成空位时它被还原。高价掺杂剂对氧空位形成的影响在可还原和不可还原的宿主氧化物上定性地不同。用Pt,Ru,Zr,Nb,Ta,Mo和W掺杂CeO2(111)对氧空位形成能没有长程效应。尽管这些掺杂剂具有非常不同的化学性质,但它们对靠近它们的空位形成能的影响大致相同。掺杂剂与掺杂剂氧化物中氧之间的键强度与掺杂剂对氧空位形成能的影响之间缺乏相关性的部分解释是Ce离子能够容易地将其形式电荷从+4改变为+3。这赋予了铈在适应这些掺杂剂提供的额外电子方面的巨大灵活性。根据掺杂剂的价态,可以预测掺杂剂对氧化镁中氧空位形成能的影响。高价掺杂剂对氧空位形成的影响在宿主氧化物是否可还原上定性地不同。在用Pt,Ru,Zr,Ta,Nb,Mo或W掺杂的可还原CeO2(111)的表面中,掺杂剂对氧空位形成能的影响难以理解。它们都以类似的数量降低了空位形成能,并且它们都能够将氧原子从Ce移开,以创建比铈中的CeO键短得多的掺杂剂-氧键。考虑到这些掺杂剂的氧化物具有截然不同的焓形成,这种相似性令人困惑。对投影态密度(PDOS)的检查表明,W和Mo向铈捐赠两个电子以还原两个Ce原子,而Ta和Nb捐赠一个电子以还原一个Ce原子。在电子捐赠之后,这些掺杂剂只有四个电子可用于形成键,就像它们取代的Ce原子一样。其他掺杂剂(Ru,Zr和Pt)没有捐赠电子以还原Ce,因此它们也有四个电子用于形成键。我们推测这是它们对氧空位形成能影响相似的一个原因。另一个原因是它们与氧的键,在它们自己的氧化物中,比CeO在CeO2中的键短得多。当这些掺杂剂之一取代Ce原子时,它会将氧化物表面的氧原子拉向它并远离铈。通过这样做,它们削弱了氧与表面的键。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
