<quotes>

[1] "In the past several decades, light alkane dehydrogenation to mono-olefins, especially propane dehydrogenation to propylene has gained widespread attention and much development in the field of research and commercial application."
[2] "Under suitable conditions, the supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts widely used in industry exhibit satisfactory dehydrogenation activity and selectivity."
[3] "However, the high cost of Pt and the potential environmental problems of CrOx have driven researchers to improve the coking and sintering resistance of Pt catalysts, and to find new non-noble metal and environment- friendly catalysts."
[4] "The dehydrogenation of alkanes can be catalyzed by metal complex catalysts and supported metal or metal oxide catalysts."
[5] "In the commercial processes OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4, either supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts have been applied."
[6] "Although supported Pt catalysts have been applied commercially for several decades, it is still a research hotspot."
[7] "Moreover, there are many reports on the improvement of traditional supported CrOx catalysts."
[8] "It is worth noting that some novel and interesting dehydrogenation catalysts have also been reported recently."
[9] "The dehydrogenation of light alkanes often proceeds in the range of 560630 1C."
[10] "If the reactors are operated adiabatically, the heat needed by the reaction is mainly supplied by the preheated feed, and then the temperature of the feed before entering the reactors must be higher than the highest temperature of the catalyst beds."
[11] "The main side products of the thermal decomposition of propane include H2, CH4, C2H4, C2H6 and coke."
[12] "The acidity of the carriers can catalyze both the cracking of light alkanes and coking, especially the polycondensation of unsaturated hydrocarbons to form coke."
[13] "The monometallic Pt can not only promote the formation of coke or coke precursors via deep dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, but also expedite the cleavage of CC bonds."
[14] "The spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally, chlorine), the role of which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles."
[15] "This step is called oxychlorination regeneration."
[16] "Although there are many negative effects for the introduction of chlorine into the units, it has to be adopted since there is no other good approach that can be chosen."
[17] "The addition of a second metal has been found to be highly effective for the sintering resistance of Pt particles."
[18] "The introduced metal forms alloys with Pt around Pt particles, and the alloys anchor them on the surface of the carriers, making them not easy to migrate and coalesce."
[19] "The application of the carriers possessing a strong interaction with Pt is another way to retard the sintering."
[20] "Al2O3 is the most common carrier of Pt catalyst, in which the coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ can anchor Pt to make it not easy to migrate."
[21] "Nanocarbon was also reported as the carrier of Pt to improve the sintering resistance, and the strong metalcarrier interaction leads to the electron transfer from nanocarbon to the Pt particles, significantly preventing the sintering of Pt."
[22] "MgAl2O4 spinel is also a good choice as the carrier."
[23] "Generally, Pt is not directly loaded on MgAl2O4 spinel prepared beforehand, but firstly loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite, and then Pt particles are enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel formed through the collapse of the layered structure of the hydrotalcite after calcination at high temperature."
[24] "In this way, Pt particles isolated are not easy to migrate into large ones."
[25] "The introduction of a second metal or the choice of an appropriate carrier only slows down the sintering rate of Pt."
[26] "To recover the activity completely, the sintered Pt particles must be redispersed."
[27] "Generally, simple coke burning-off by air cannot realize redispersion, but aggravates the sintering of Pt particles."
[28] "For the commercial dehydrogenation units using supported Pt catalyst, the spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally, chlorine), the role of which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles."
[29] "This step is called oxychlorination regeneration."
[30] "Although there are many negative effects for the introduction of chlorine into the units, it has to be adopted since there is no other good approach that can be chosen."
[31] "The time between regenerations over the supported Pt catalyst for light-alkane dehydrogenation is determined by the rate of coking, because the sintering of Pt during the reaction is a relatively slow process."
[32] "Coking deactivation is classified into two distinct stages, quick deactivation and steady state."
[33] "The loss of activity cannot be simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited."
[34] "If the coke is formed on the carriers, the activity of the catalyst will not be affected, while the pressure drop of the catalyst bed will increase consequently."
[35] "It should be noticed that both the conversion and the selectivity will decrease with the increase of the pressure drop."
[36] "The conversion will decrease since dehydrogenation is a reversible reaction with an increase in the mole number."
[37] "As for the selectivity to olefins, since the side reactions such as cracking and coking are irreversible reactions, the proportion of the side reactions will increase when dehydrogenation is inhibited, resulting in the reduced olefin selectivity."
[38] "Only when the Pt particles are covered by coke will the catalyst deactivate."
[39] "Slowing down the coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are pivotal for improving the technologies of light alkane dehydrogenation."
[40] "Just like the sintering of Pt, coking is unavoidable, but some measures can be taken to slow down the coking rate, including the optimization of reaction conditions and the catalyst."
[41] "For the reaction conditions, the rate of coking is affected by H2, H2O, the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, as well as the space time and linear velocity of oil vapor."
[42] "For a catalyst, the most important factor is its composition."
[43] "Increasing the partial pressure of H2 is the most common measure to inhibit coke formation."
[44] "In Honeywell UOPs OleflexTM process, this measure is taken to control the coking rate and adjust the time between regenerations."
[45] "Reducing coke formation by increasing the partial pressure of H2 is at the cost of the conversion of light alkanes, since it is thermodynamically unfavorable for dehydrogenation."
[46] "The circulation of H2 and the decrease of the conversion will lead to the increase of equipment investment and operation cost."
[47] "Introducing a small amount of H2O into the reactor can also reduce coke significantly, but it decreases the conversion due to the competitive adsorption with the feed."
[48] "Increasing the reaction temperature will weaken the effect of H2O on the conversion to some extent."
[49] "For example, when adding a little H2O into the feed, the conversion of propane over the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst reaches about 40% at 680 1C and coke formation is almost suppressed completely from 2.8 to 0.5 wt%."
[50] "As for the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, it should be kept as low as possible without affecting the stable and safe operation of the unit, because the conversion will drop and the coke yield will increase with the pressure."
[51] "Generally, adjusting the partial pressure of hydrocarbons to reduce coke formation is not considered in practice."
[52] "Space time affects both the conversion and the selectivity."
[53] "The conversion increases with it and the selectivity is just the opposite."
[54] "The increased formation of side products include coke and the smaller molecules produced by cracking."
[55] "Although shortening the space time can reduce or even almost avoid coke formation, what is more important is the balance between the conversion and the selectivity."
[56] "The effect of the linear velocity on coking is similar to that of the space time."
[57] "In the case of a constant space time, the increase of the linear velocity is unfavorable for the adsorption of the formed olefins on the catalyst surface and reduces the backmixing degree of oil vapor, and thus the secondary reactions of olefins, including the polycondensation to coke, can be inhibited even though the linear velocity cannot be elevated greatly due to the consequently increased pressure drop of the catalyst bed, which is proportional to the square of velocity."
[58] "Therefore, this measure is not applicable to lengthen the time between regenerations."
[59] "The most important factor affecting the time between regenerations is the composition of the catalyst."
[60] "Both the metals and the carriers may catalyze the formation of coke, as stated in the section of side reactions and selectivity."
[61] "The addition of the second metal to form alloys with Pt and using the carrier without acidity can reduce the coke formed by deep dehydrogenation and polycondensation of hydrocarbons, respectively."
[62] "Jiang et al. suggested that adding about 10 wt% TiO2 into Al2O3 carrier can suppress coke formation, because the electron donation from partially reduced TiOx species to Pt leads to electron-rich Pt particles, which inhibit the adsorption of propylene and the formation of the coke precursor."
[63] "Improving the coking resistance of the catalyst is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations."
[64] "Moreover, the optimization of reaction conditions can also help to lengthen the time between regenerations, such as the introduction of hydrogen or steam."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for propene production that has gained widespread attention and development in research and commercial applications over the past several decades. Supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts are widely used in industry and exhibit satisfactory dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and environmental concerns about CrOx have led researchers to focus on improving the coking and sintering resistance of Pt catalysts and finding new non-noble metal and environmentally friendly catalysts. Metal complex catalysts and supported metal or metal oxide catalysts can catalyze the dehydrogenation of alkanes. In commercial processes such as OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4, supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts are applied. Although supported Pt catalysts have been commercially used for several decades, they are still a research hotspot. There are many reports on the improvement of traditional supported CrOx catalysts. Some novel and interesting dehydrogenation catalysts have also been reported recently.
2.Light alkane dehydrogenation often proceeds in the range of 560-630°C. If the reactors are operated adiabatically, the heat needed for the reaction is mainly supplied by the preheated feed, and the temperature of the feed before entering the reactors must be higher than the highest temperature of the catalyst beds. The main side products of the thermal decomposition of propane include H2, CH4, C2H4, C2H6, and coke. The acidity of the carriers can catalyze both the cracking of light alkanes and coking, especially the polycondensation of unsaturated hydrocarbons to form coke. The monometallic Pt can not only promote the formation of coke or coke precursors via deep dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons but also expedite the cleavage of CC bonds.
3.The spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally chlorine), which is used to redisperse sintered Pt particles. This step is called oxychlorination regeneration. Although there are many negative effects of introducing chlorine into the units, it has to be adopted since there is no other good approach that can be chosen. The addition of a second metal has been found to be highly effective for the sintering resistance of Pt particles. The introduced metal forms alloys with Pt around Pt particles, and the alloys anchor them on the surface of the carriers, making them not easy to migrate and coalesce. The application of carriers possessing a strong interaction with Pt is another way to retard the sintering. Al2O3 is the most common carrier of Pt catalyst, in which the coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ can anchor Pt to make it not easy to migrate. Nanocarbon was also reported as the carrier of Pt to improve the sintering resistance, and the strong metalcarrier interaction leads to the electron transfer from nanocarbon to the Pt particles, significantly preventing the sintering of Pt. MgAl2O4 spinel is also a good choice as the carrier. Generally, Pt is not directly loaded on MgAl2O4 spinel prepared beforehand, but firstly loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite, and then Pt particles are enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel formed through the collapse of the layered structure of the hydrotalcite after calcination at high temperature. In this way, Pt particles isolated are not easy to migrate into large ones. The introduction of a second metal or the choice of an appropriate carrier only slows down the sintering rate of Pt. To recover the activity completely, the sintered Pt particles must be redispersed. Generally, simple coke burning-off by air cannot realize redispersion, but aggravates the sintering of Pt particles. For the commercial dehydrogenation units using supported Pt catalyst, the spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally chlorine), the role of which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles. This step is called oxychlorination regeneration. Although there are many negative effects for the introduction of chlorine into the units, it has to be adopted since there is no other good approach that can be chosen.
4.The time between regenerations over the supported Pt catalyst for light-alkane dehydrogenation is determined by the rate of coking, because the sintering of Pt during the reaction is a relatively slow process. Coking deactivation is classified into two distinct stages, quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity cannot be simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. If the coke is formed on the carriers, the activity of the catalyst will not be affected, while the pressure drop of the catalyst bed will increase consequently. It should be noticed that both the conversion and the selectivity will decrease with the increase of the pressure drop. The conversion will decrease since dehydrogenation is a reversible reaction with an increase in the mole number. As for the selectivity to olefins, since the side reactions such as cracking and coking are irreversible reactions, the proportion of the side reactions will increase when dehydrogenation is inhibited, resulting in the reduced olefin selectivity. Only when the Pt particles are covered by coke will the catalyst deactivate. Slowing down the coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are pivotal for improving the technologies of light alkane dehydrogenation. Just like the sintering of Pt, coking is unavoidable, but some measures can be taken to slow down the coking rate, including the optimization of reaction conditions and the catalyst. For the reaction conditions, the rate of coking is affected by H2, H2O, the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, as well as the space time and linear velocity of oil vapor. For a catalyst, the most important factor is its composition. Increasing the partial pressure of H2 is the most common measure to inhibit coke formation. In Honeywell UOPs OleflexTM process, this measure is taken to control the coking rate and adjust the time between regenerations. Reducing coke formation by increasing the partial pressure of H2 is at the cost of the conversion of light alkanes, since it is thermodynamically unfavorable for dehydrogenation. The circulation of H2 and the decrease of the conversion will lead to the increase of equipment investment and operation cost. Introducing a small amount of H2O into the reactor can also reduce coke significantly, but it decreases the conversion due to the competitive adsorption with the feed. Increasing the reaction temperature will weaken the effect of H2O on the conversion to some extent. For example, when adding a little H2O into the feed, the conversion of propane over the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst reaches about 40% at 680°C and coke formation is almost suppressed completely from 2.8 to 0.5 wt%. As for the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, it should be kept as low as possible without affecting the stable and safe operation of the unit, because the conversion will drop and the coke yield will increase with the pressure. Generally, adjusting the partial pressure of hydrocarbons to reduce coke formation is not considered in practice. Space time affects both the conversion and the selectivity. The conversion increases with it and the selectivity is just the opposite. The increased formation of side products includes coke and the smaller molecules produced by cracking. Although shortening the space time can reduce or even almost avoid coke formation, what is more important is the balance between the conversion and the selectivity. The effect of the linear velocity on coking is similar to that of the space time. In the case of a constant space time, the increase of the linear velocity is unfavorable for the adsorption of the formed olefins on the catalyst surface and reduces the backmixing degree of oil vapor, and thus the secondary reactions of olefins, including the polycondensation to coke, can be inhibited even though the linear velocity cannot be elevated greatly due to the consequently increased pressure drop of the catalyst bed, which is proportional to the square of velocity. Therefore, this measure is not applicable to lengthen the time between regenerations. The most important factor affecting the time between regenerations is the composition of the catalyst. Both the metals and the carriers may catalyze the formation of coke, as stated in the section of side reactions and selectivity. The addition of the second metal to form alloys with Pt and using the carrier without acidity can reduce the coke formed by deep dehydrogenation and polycondensation of hydrocarbons, respectively. Jiang et al. suggested that adding about 10 wt% TiO2 into Al2O3 carrier can suppress coke formation, because the electron donation from partially reduced TiOx species to Pt leads to electron-rich Pt particles, which inhibit the adsorption of propylene and the formation of the coke precursor. Improving the coking resistance of the catalyst is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Moreover, the optimization of reaction conditions can also help to lengthen the time between regenerations, such as the introduction of hydrogen or steam.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是丙烯生产的一种方法，过去几十年在研究和商业应用领域得到了广泛关注和大量发展。工业中广泛使用的支撑PtSn和CrOx催化剂表现出令人满意的脱氢活性和选择性。然而，Pt的高成本和CrOx的潜在环境问题促使研究人员致力于提高Pt催化剂的焦炭和烧结抗性，以及寻找新的非贵金属和环保催化剂。金属复合催化剂和支撑金属或金属氧化物催化剂可以催化烷烃的脱氢。在OleflexTM、CatofinTM、STARTM、LindeTM和FBD-4等商业过程中，应用了支撑PtSn或CrOx催化剂。尽管支撑Pt催化剂在过去的几十年中已经商业化使用，但它们仍然是研究热点。有许多关于传统支撑CrOx催化剂改进的报道。最近还报道了一些新颖有趣的脱氢催化剂。
2.轻烷烃脱氢通常在560-630°C的范围内进行。如果反应器以绝热方式运行，反应所需的热量主要由预热的进料提供，进料在进入反应器前的温度必须高于催化剂床层的最高温度。丙烷热分解的主要副产品包括H2、CH4、C2H4、C2H6和焦炭。载体的酸性可以催化轻烷烃的裂解和焦炭的形成，特别是不饱和烃的多聚化形成焦炭。单金属Pt不仅可以促进通过深度脱氢形成烃的焦炭或焦炭前体，还可以加速CC键的断裂。
3.在存在卤化物(通常是氯)的情况下，用空气再生失活催化剂，其作用是重新分散烧结的Pt颗粒。这一步骤称为氧氯化再生。尽管将氯引入装置有许多负面影响，但由于没有其他更好的选择，必须采用这种方法。添加第二种金属被发现对Pt颗粒的烧结抗性有高度效果。引入的金属与Pt形成合金，围绕Pt颗粒，合金将它们锚定在载体表面，使它们不易迁移和聚集。应用与Pt具有强相互作用的载体是另一种减缓烧结的方法。Al2O3是最常见的Pt催化剂载体，在其中，配位不饱和的五配位Al3+可以锚定Pt，使其不易迁移。纳米碳也被报道为Pt的载体，以提高烧结抗性，强金属载体相互作用导致电子从纳米碳转移到Pt颗粒，显著防止Pt的烧结。MgAl2O4尖晶石也是载体的良好选择。通常，Pt不是直接加载到预先制备的MgAl2O4尖晶石上，而是首先加载到MgAlOx水滑石层间空间，然后Pt颗粒被封装在通过高温煅烧水滑石层状结构坍塌形成的MgAl2O4尖晶石的层间空间中。这样，隔离的Pt颗粒不易迁移成大颗粒。引入第二种金属或选择合适的载体仅能减缓Pt的烧结速率。为了完全恢复活性，烧结的Pt颗粒必须重新分散。通常，简单的空气烧焦不能实现再分散，反而会加剧Pt颗粒的烧结。对于使用支撑Pt催化剂的商业脱氢装置，失活催化剂在存在卤化物(通常是氯)的情况下用空气再生，其作用是重新分散烧结的Pt颗粒。这一步骤称为氧氯化再生。尽管将氯引入装置有许多负面影响，但由于没有其他更好的选择，必须采用这种方法。
4.在支撑Pt催化剂的轻烷烃脱氢中，再生时间间隔由焦炭速率决定，因为反应中的Pt烧结是一个相对较慢的过程。焦炭失活分为两个不同的阶段，快速失活和稳态。活性的损失不能简单地与沉积的焦炭量和性质相关联。如果焦炭在载体上形成，催化剂的活性不会受到影响，但催化剂床层的压力降会随之增加。值得注意的是，随着压力降的增加，转化率和选择性都会降低。由于脱氢是随着摩尔数增加的可逆反应，转化率会降低。至于烯烃的选择性，由于裂解和焦炭等副反应是不可逆反应，当脱氢被抑制时，副反应的比例会增加，导致烯烃选择性降低。只有当Pt颗粒被焦炭覆盖时，催化剂才会失活。减缓焦炭形成速率和延长再生时间间隔对于改善轻烷烃脱氢技术至关重要。就像Pt的烧结一样，焦炭是不可避免的，但可以采取一些措施来减缓焦炭形成速率，包括优化反应条件和催化剂。对于反应条件，焦炭速率受H2、H2O、烃的分压以及油蒸气的空间时间和线速度的影响。对于催化剂，最重要的因素是其组成。增加H2的分压是抑制焦炭形成的最常见措施。在Honeywell UOP的OleflexTM工艺中，采取了这一措施来控制焦炭速率并调整再生时间间隔。通过增加H2的分压来减少焦炭形成是以轻烷烃转化率降低为代价的，因为这对脱氢热力学不利。H2的循环和转化率的降低将导致设备投资和运营成本的增加。向反应器中引入少量H2O也可以显著减少焦炭，但由于与进料的竞争吸附，转化率会降低。提高反应温度会在一定程度上削弱H2O对转化率的影响。例如，当在进料中加入少量H2O时，PtSn/CeO2催化剂在680°C下的丙烷转化率约为40%，焦炭形成几乎完全从2.8%抑制到0.5%。至于烃的分压，应在不影响装置稳定和安全运行的情况下尽可能保持较低，因为转化率会随着压力的升高而降低，焦炭产量也会增加。通常，调整烃的分压以减少焦炭形成在实践中不被考虑。空间时间影响转化率和选择性。转化率随其增加而增加，而选择性则相反。副产物的形成增加，包括焦炭和由裂解产生的较小分子。虽然缩短空间时间可以减少甚至几乎避免焦炭形成，但更重要的是转化率和选择性之间的平衡。线速度对焦炭的影响与空间时间相似。在恒定的空间时间下，线速度的增加不利于形成的烯烃在催化剂表面的吸附，并降低了油蒸气的返混程度，从而抑制了烯烃的二次反应，包括聚合成焦炭，尽管由于催化剂床层压力降的增加，线速度不能大幅提高，压力降与速度的平方成正比。因此，这一措施不适用于延长再生时间间隔。影响再生时间间隔的最重要因素是催化剂的组成。金属和载体都可能催化焦炭的形成，如在副反应和选择性部分所述。添加第二种金属与Pt形成合金，以及使用无酸性的载体，可以分别减少深度脱氢和烃类聚合成焦炭形成的焦炭。Jiang等人建议，在Al2O3载体中添加约10 wt%的TiO2可以抑制焦炭形成，因为部分还原的TiOx物种向Pt的电子捐赠导致电子丰富的Pt颗粒，抑制了丙烯的吸附和焦炭前体的形成。提高催化剂的焦炭抗性是延长再生时间间隔最有效的方法。此外，优化反应条件也可以帮助延长再生时间间隔，例如引入氢气或蒸汽。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
