<quotes>

[1] "The dehydrogenation of alkane to olefin and H2 is endothermic,and the conversion for a single pass is limited by the thermo- dynamic equilibrium."
[2] "If the H2 produced can be oxidized to H2O during dehydrogenation, not only will the endothermic process be transformed to an exothermic one, but also the equilibrium limitation will be broken."
[3] "The dehydrogenation of alkanes can be catalyzed by metal complex catalysts and supported metal or metal oxide catalysts."
[4] "In the commercial processes OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4, either supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts have been applied."
[5] "Although supported Pt catalysts have been applied commercially for several decades, it is still a research hotspot."
[6] "The time between regenerations over the supported Pt catalyst for light-alkane dehydrogenation is determined by the rate of coking, because the sintering of Pt during the reaction is a relatively slow process."
[7] "Coking deactiva- tion is classified into two distinct stages, quick deactivation and steady state."
[8] "The loss of activity cannot be simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited."
[9] "If the coke is formed on the carriers, the activity of the catalyst will not be affected, while the pressure drop of the catalyst bed will increase consequently."
[10] "Only when the Pt particles are covered by coke will the catalyst deactivate."
[11] "Increasing the partial pressure of H2 is the most common measure to inhibit coke formation."
[12] "Reducing coke forma- tion by increasing the partial pressure of H2 76,77 is at the cost of the conversion of light alkanes, since it is thermodynamically unfavorable for dehydrogenation."
[13] "The circulation of H2 and the decrease of the conversion will lead to the increase of equip- ment investment and operation cost."
[14] "Introducing a small amount of H2O into the reactor can also reduce coke significantly, but it decreases the conversion due to the competitive adsorption with the feed."
[15] "Increasing the reac- tion temperature will weaken the effect of H2O on the conver- sion to some extent."
[16] "For example, when adding a little H2O into the feed, the conversion of propane over the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst reaches about 40% at 680 1C and coke formation is almost suppressed completely from 2.8 to 0.5 wt%."
[17] "The effect of the linear velocity on coking is similar to that of the space time."
[18] "In the case of a constant space time, the increase of the linear velocity is unfavorable for the adsorption of the formed olefins on the catalyst surface and reduces the backmixing degree of oil vapor, and thus the secondary reac- tions of olefins, including the polycondensation to coke, can be inhibited even though the linear velocity cannot be elevated greatly due to the consequently increased pressure drop of the catalyst bed, which is proportional to the square of velocity."
[19] "The most important factor affecting the time between regenera- tions is the composition of the catalyst."
[20] "Both the metals and the carriers may catalyze the formation of coke, as stated in the section of side reactions and selectivity."
[21] "The addition of the second metal to form alloys with Pt and using the carrier without acidity can reduce the coke formed by deep dehydrogenation and polycon- densation of hydrocarbons, respectively."
[22] "Improving the coking resistance of the catalyst is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations."
[23] "Moreover, the optimization of reaction conditions can also help to lengthen the time between regenerations, such as the introduction of hydrogen or steam."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an endothermic process that converts propane to propene and hydrogen. The single-pass conversion is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. If hydrogen can be oxidized to water during dehydrogenation, the endothermic process becomes exothermic, and the equilibrium limitation is broken.
2.PDH can be catalyzed by metal complex catalysts and supported metal or metal oxide catalysts. Commercial processes like OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4 use supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Although supported Pt catalysts have been used commercially for decades, they remain a research hotspot.
3.The time between regenerations for supported Pt catalysts in light alkane dehydrogenation is determined by the rate of coking. Coking deactivation has two stages: quick deactivation and steady state. The loss of activity is not simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited. If coke forms on the carriers, the catalyst's activity is unaffected, but the pressure drop of the catalyst bed increases. The catalyst deactivates only when Pt particles are covered by coke.
4.Increasing the partial pressure of hydrogen is the most common measure to inhibit coke formation. However, this reduces the conversion of light alkanes, as it is thermodynamically unfavorable for dehydrogenation. The circulation of hydrogen and the decrease in conversion lead to increased equipment investment and operation costs.
5.Introducing a small amount of water into the reactor can significantly reduce coke formation, but it decreases the conversion due to competitive adsorption with the feed. Increasing the reaction temperature weakens the effect of water on conversion. For example, adding a little water to the feed results in about 40% propane conversion over the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst at 680°C, and coke formation is almost completely suppressed from 2.8 to 0.5 wt%.
6.The effect of linear velocity on coking is similar to that of space time. In the case of constant space time, increasing the linear velocity is unfavorable for the adsorption of formed olefins on the catalyst surface and reduces the backmixing degree of oil vapor, inhibiting secondary reactions of olefins, including polycondensation to coke. However, the linear velocity cannot be greatly increased due to the increased pressure drop of the catalyst bed, which is proportional to the square of velocity.
7.The most important factor affecting the time between regenerations is the composition of the catalyst. Both metals and carriers may catalyze the formation of coke. The addition of a second metal to form alloys with Pt and using a carrier without acidity can reduce the coke formed by deep dehydrogenation and polycondensation of hydrocarbons, respectively. Improving the coking resistance of the catalyst is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Optimizing reaction conditions, such as introducing hydrogen or steam, can also help lengthen the time between regenerations.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一个吸热过程，将丙烷转化为丙烯和氢气。单程转化率受热力学平衡的限制。如果在脱氢过程中氢气可以被氧化为水，不仅吸热过程会变成放热过程，而且平衡限制也会被打破。
2.PDH可以通过金属复合催化剂和负载金属或金属氧化物催化剂催化。商业过程如OleflexTM、CatofinTM、STARTM、LindeTM和FBD-4使用负载PtSn或CrOx催化剂。尽管负载Pt催化剂已经商用几十年，但它们仍然是研究热点。
3.在轻烷烃脱氢中，负载Pt催化剂的再生时间由积炭速率决定。积炭失活分为两个阶段：快速失活和稳态。失活程度与积炭量和性质没有简单相关性。如果积炭在载体上形成，催化剂的活性不会受到影响，但催化剂床的压力降会增加。只有当Pt颗粒被积炭覆盖时，催化剂才会失活。
4.增加氢气的分压是抑制积炭形成的最常见措施。然而，这会降低轻烷烃的转化率，因为这对脱氢过程热力学不利。氢气的循环和转化率的降低会导致设备投资和运营成本的增加。
5.向反应器中引入少量水可以显著减少积炭形成，但会因与进料的竞争吸附而降低转化率。提高反应温度会削弱水对转化率的影响。例如，在进料中加入少量水，PtSn/CeO2催化剂在680°C下的丙烷转化率约为40%，积炭形成几乎完全从2.8%抑制到0.5%。
6.线速度对积炭的影响与停留时间相似。在恒定停留时间的情况下，增加线速度不利于形成的烯烃在催化剂表面的吸附，降低了油蒸汽的返混程度，从而抑制了烯烃的二次反应，包括聚合成焦。然而，由于催化剂床压力降与速度的平方成正比，线速度不能大幅增加。
7.影响再生时间的最重要因素是催化剂的组成。金属和载体都可能催化积炭的形成。添加第二种金属与Pt形成合金以及使用无酸性的载体可以分别减少由深度脱氢和烃类聚合成焦形成的积炭。提高催化剂的抗积炭能力是延长再生时间的最有效方法。优化反应条件，如引入氢气或蒸汽，也可以帮助延长再生时间。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
