<quotes>
[1] "All the investigated zeolites exhibited low activity in the oxidation of propane with oxygen at conditions selected in this study. The activities of catalysts are compared at the re-action time-on-stream (T-O-S) of 400 min."
[2] "An increase in propane conversion over FeH-MFI-190-C calcined in dry oxygen (3.8% versus 1.2%), when N2O instead of oxygen was used, was much lower. It implies that using N2O as oxidant compared to oxygen resulted in the higher propane conversions, higher selectivity to propene and in the appearance of alcohols in the products as well as of products of propane cracking and propene dimerization."
[3] "These results suggest that nitrous oxide is activated on the extra-framework Fe sites generated from the framework sites by zeolite steaming, but to much less extent by cal-cination of the zeolite in a dry oxygen stream, as follows from the ESR spectra of the Fe ions (see Fig. 2)."
[4] "Oxidation of propane with N2O over the steamed Fe-zeolites led to production of a high amount of propene. In addition, a considerable amount of other oxygenates (methanol, ethanol, iso-propyl and n-propyl alcohol, phenol and acrolein) and aromatics (benzene and toluene) were formed."
[5] "The highest yields of alcohols and propene found with the steamed highly loaded Fe zeolite, i.e. with the zeolite with the highest concentration of the extra-framework Fe sites, reflected in the ESR signals at g = 5.6 and 6.0, indicates that the Fe species bearing the -sites predominantly control the described reaction."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Various synthesis methods such as steam treatment, solid-state ion exchange, and liquid exchange of iron-containing ZSM-5 zeolites affect their catalytic performance in the N2O-assisted oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction. Steam treatment leads to the generation of extra-framework Fe sites, which are crucial for the reaction's activity. Solid-state ion exchange and liquid exchange alter the distribution of iron within the zeolite, impacting its performance. The key performance metrics that demonstrate effectiveness include C3H8 conversion, N2O conversion, C3H6 selectivity, and C3H6 yield. The highest catalytic activity is observed in zeolites with the highest Fe content and those steamed at 600°C in the presence of water vapor.

2. Using N2O as an oxidant compared to oxygen resulted in higher propane conversions, higher selectivity to propene, and the appearance of alcohols in the products, along with products of propane cracking and propene dimerization. This is evident when comparing the propane conversion of 3.8% from FeH-MFI-190-C calcined in dry oxygen to 1.2% when N2O is used instead.

3. Nitrous oxide is activated on the extra-framework Fe sites generated from the framework sites by zeolite steaming, whereas its activation is less pronounced in the case of calcination in a dry oxygen stream. This is supported by the ESR spectra of Fe ions, showing the presence of Fe in distorted tetrahedral coordination in extra-framework positions after steaming.

4. Oxidation of propane with N2O over steamed Fe-zeolites produces a high amount of propene, along with other oxygenates such as methanol, ethanol, iso-propyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol, phenol, and acrolein. Additionally, aromatics like benzene and toluene are formed as products.

5. The steamed highly loaded Fe zeolite, characterized by the highest concentration of extra-framework Fe sites indicated by ESR signals at g = 5.6 and 6.0, showed the highest yields of alcohols and propene. This indicates that the Fe species bearing the -sites predominantly control the ODHP reaction.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 不同合成方法，如蒸汽处理、固体离子交换和液体交换，对铁含量较高的ZSM-5沸石在N2O辅助下丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应的催化性能产生影响。蒸汽处理导致生成额外框架Fe位点，这是反应活性的关键。固体离子交换和液体交换改变了铁在沸石中的分布，影响其性能。关键性能指标包括C3H8转化率、N2O转化率、C3H6选择性和C3H6产率。最高催化活性出现在Fe含量最高且在水蒸气存在的条件下蒸汽处理的沸石中。

2. 相对于使用氧气，使用N2O作为氧化剂可以得到更高的丙烷转化率、更高的丙烯选择性，并且在产品中出现醇类，以及丙烷裂解和丙烯二聚化产物。这从FeH-MFI-190-C在干燥氧气中热处理后3.8%的丙烷转化率与使用N2O时1.2%的对比中可以看出。

3. 硝酸盐通过蒸汽处理沸石产生的额外框架Fe位点被激活，而在干燥氧气流中进行热处理时，其激活程度较低。这一点由Fe离子的ESR光谱支持，显示在蒸汽处理后Fe处于扭曲的四面体协调的额外框架位置。

4. 使用N2O氧化丙烷过蒸汽处理的Fe沸石，会产生大量丙烯，同时还会生成甲醇、乙醇、异丙醇、正丙醇、酚和丙酮等氧化合物。此外，苯和甲苯等芳香族化合物也会作为产品形成。

5. 高度负载的Fe沸石蒸汽处理，特征为ESR信号在g=5.6和6.0处表示最高的额外框架Fe位点浓度，显示出最高的醇和丙烯产量。这表明具有-g位点的Fe物种主要控制了ODHP反应。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
