<quotes>

[1] "Some aspects concerning the chemistry of oxidative transformation of parafns catalyzed by different classes of materials are examined. Attention is given mainly to: (i) the role of the redox properties of transition metal oxide-based systems, and (ii) the contribution of radical-type, homogeneous and heterogeneously-initiated homogeneous reactions over nonreducible metal oxide catalysts."
[2] "The general picture that can be drawn on the basis of the most important factors which are examined in these reviews clearly shows that the problem of parafn conversion and of selectivity to the desired product has to be solved within a complex framework of inter-related aspects."
[3] "In this paper, after a brief summary of the main aspects, which have been claimed as fundamental for the control of catalytic performance in the selective oxidation of alkanes, attention is focused on the following: (i) role of the redox properties of the active sites for catalysts based on reducible metal oxides, and (ii) role of the nonredox activation of hydrocarbons and of radical reactions in affecting the catalytic performance for catalysts based on nonreducible metal oxides."
[4] "In fact, the mechanism which operates is completely heterogeneous and includes the formation of an intermediate alkoxy species (or alkyl radical species)."
[5] "Some examples can be found in the literature where the importance of the redox properties of the active sites in determining the catalytic performance is emphasized."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. Two-site schemes refer to the simultaneous formation of two alkyl radicals, which then undergo further reactions to form alkenes and metallacyclobutanes. One-site schemes involve the sequential formation of a single alkyl radical, followed by the transformation of the radical into an alkene and then into a metallacyclobutane. Key intermediates in the linear alkane transformations include alkenes, while cyclic alkane transformations involve the formation of metallacyclobutanes. The selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions are influenced by factors such as the formation and stability of these intermediates, as well as the efficiency of the redox processes. The role of redox properties of the active sites plays a crucial role in determining the catalytic performance, particularly in the context of the redox reactions occurring during alkane metathesis. The one-site and two-site schemes contribute to the overall selectivity and efficiency of the catalyst in alkane conversions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
烷烃互变异构催化由二氧化硅支持的钽氢化物的全面机制涉及双位点和单位点方案。双位点方案指的是同时形成两个烷基自由基，然后进一步反应形成烯烃和金属环丁烷。单位点方案涉及到单个烷基自由基的顺序形成，随后将自由基转化为烯烃，然后转化为金属环丁烷。线性烷烃转化的关键中间体包括烯烃，而环烷烃转化则涉及金属环丁烷的形成。在各种烷烃转换中，中间体的形成和稳定性以及红ox过程的效率影响选择性和催化剂性能。活性位点的红ox性质在确定催化性能时起着关键作用，特别是在烷烃互变异构过程中发生的红ox反应的背景下。双位点和单位点方案对整体选择性和催化剂在烷烃转换中的效率做出了贡献。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
