<quotes>
[1] "Asia and China in the Global Economy Downloaded from www.worldscientific.com by NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY on 10/11/17. For personal use only."
[2] "Against a background of the excessive US household indebtedness and ongoing global financial turmoil, consumer credit in Asia has grown significantly in recent years."
[3] "The levels of outstanding credit card holdings and loans in Asia have not always converged smoothly to levels seen in mature markets."
[4] "Rather, in this decade, Asia has witnessed cycles of marked credit card lending booms and busts in a number of its markets."
[5] "Of the episodes in Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan during the 2000s, Korea experienced the most serious boom-bust cycle in 2003."
[6] "Therefore, we take a closer look at the credit card lending crisis there."
[7] "Easy monetary conditions, financial liberalization, economies of scales in the credit card business, limited information reporting and sharing, various forms of the principal-agent problem, and the seasoning effect of a fast-growing lending portfolio all contributed to unsustainable credit lending boom."
[8] "Eventually, excessive indebtedness led to rising credit cost and tighter lending standard, contracting credit, further credit loss,big balance sheet adjustments, risks to the financial system and damages to the economy."
[9] "Policymakers in Asian emerging markets such as China and India need to learn about the risks arising from this type of con- sumer lending and respond with enhanced supervisory capacity, better market infrastructure, and appropriate prudential measures."
[10] "Answers to these questions will be especially valuable to a number of populous emerging Asian markets, such as China and India, where the credit card segment of retail finance is just starting to take off."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The credit card lending in Asia has grown rapidly since the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, but this growth has seen several episodes of sharp booms and busts, posing new risks to financial stability. This chapter aims to learn more about the credit card markets and shed light on and draw lessons from some of the core common elements in the three recent episodes of credit card lending distress in Asia: Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan. The Korean credit card lending crisis in 2003, which was the most severe, will be examined closely. Factors such as easy monetary conditions, financial liberalization, economies of scale in the credit card business, limited information reporting and sharing, principal-agent problems, and the seasoning effect of a fast-growing lending portfolio contributed to the unsustainable credit lending boom. Excessive indebtedness led to rising credit costs, tighter lending standards, contracting credit, further credit loss, big balance sheet adjustments, risks to the financial system, and damages to the economy. Policymakers in Asian emerging markets like China and India need to learn about the risks arising from this type of consumer lending and respond with enhanced supervisory capacity, better market infrastructure, and appropriate prudential measures. Understanding the lessons from these episodes will be especially valuable for China and India, where the credit card segment of retail finance is just starting to take off.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
自1997年亚洲金融危机以来，亚洲的信用卡借贷迅速增长，但这一增长经历了多次剧烈的繁荣和崩溃，对金融稳定构成了新的风险。本章旨在深入了解信用卡市场，并从亚洲近期信用卡借贷困境的核心共同元素中汲取教训：香港、韩国和台湾。2003年的韩国信用卡借贷危机最为严重，将被详细研究。宽松的货币政策条件、金融自由化、信用卡业务的规模经济、有限的信息报告与共享、委托代理问题、快速增长贷款组合的陈化效应等都是导致不可持续信贷借贷繁荣的因素。过度负债导致了信贷成本上升、收紧放贷标准、信贷收缩、进一步的信贷损失、资产负债表大幅调整、金融系统风险和经济损失。亚洲新兴市场的政策制定者，如中国和印度，需要了解这种消费者借贷带来的风险，并通过增强监管能力、改善市场基础设施和采取适当的审慎措施来做出响应。理解这些事件的教训对于中国和印度尤为重要，这两个国家的信用卡零售金融领域才刚刚起步。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
