<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is a well-known mechanism for the oxidation of organic compounds over metal oxides. In this mechanism, the metal oxide acts as a source of oxygen, which is transferred to the organic substrate. The metal oxide is then reduced, and the process is repeated. This mechanism is often invoked to explain the selective oxidation of alkanes to carbonyl compounds over metal oxides."
          [2] "The H-abstraction mechanism involves the direct abstraction of a hydrogen atom from an organic substrate by a metal center. This mechanism is often invoked to explain the activation of C-H bonds over metal centers on oxide surfaces."
          [3] "The selective oxidation of alkanes to carbonyl compounds is an important industrial process. One example is the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. This process is typically carried out over a vanadium pentoxide catalyst. The vanadium pentoxide acts as a source of oxygen, which is transferred to the butane to form maleic anhydride. The vanadium pentoxide is then reduced, and the process is repeated."
          [1] "The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is a well-established mechanism for the selective oxidation of alkanes over metal oxide catalysts. In this mechanism, the metal oxide (MOx) acts as a source of lattice oxygen, which is transferred to the alkane substrate to form an alkyl radical. The alkyl radical can then undergo further oxidation to form the desired product. This mechanism is particularly important for the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride."
          [2] "The H-abstraction mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from the alkane substrate by a metal center, leading to the formation of an alkyl radical. This mechanism is also important for the selective oxidation of alkanes over metal oxide catalysts."
          [3] "The conversion of butane to maleic anhydride is a classic example of the application of these principles in industrial selective oxidation. In this process, butane is oxidized over a metal oxide catalyst, such as vanadium pentoxide (V2O5), to form maleic anhydride. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism and H-abstraction mechanism both play important roles in this process."
          [1] "The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is a well-known mechanism for the selective oxidation of alkanes over metal oxide catalysts. In this mechanism, the metal oxide (MOx) acts as a source of lattice oxygen for the oxidative cleavage of C-H bonds in the alkane. The metal center in the MOx lattice abstracts a hydrogen atom from the alkane, forming a hydroxyl group on the metal oxide surface and a radical on the alkane. The radical can then react with lattice oxygen to form a carbonyl group, which can further oxidize to form the desired product. This mechanism is widely used in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride."
          [1] "The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is a well-established mechanism for the selective oxidation of alkanes to oxygenates over solid catalysts. In this mechanism, the oxygen atom of the adsorbed oxygen molecule is transferred to the substrate via a metal center, which acts as a redox mediator. The metal center is reduced in the process, and the reduced metal can be reoxidized by the adsorbed oxygen molecule, thus regenerating the active site. This mechanism is widely accepted for the selective oxidation of alkanes to oxygenates over metal-oxide catalysts."
          [2] "The H-abstraction mechanism is another mechanism that has been proposed for the selective oxidation of alkanes over metal-oxide catalysts. In this mechanism, the metal center abstracts a hydrogen atom from the alkane substrate, forming a metal hydride and a radical intermediate. The radical intermediate can then react with the adsorbed oxygen molecule to form the desired oxygenate product. This mechanism is less well-established than the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but it has been proposed for certain metal-oxide catalysts."
          [3] "The selective oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride is an important industrial process that utilizes the principles of heterogeneous catalysis. In this process, butane is oxidized to maleic anhydride over a metal-oxide catalyst, typically vanadium pentoxide on a silica support. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is believed to be the dominant mechanism for this reaction, with the vanadium center acting as the redox mediator. The reaction is highly selective for maleic anhydride, with minimal formation of other oxygenates or coke."
          [1] "The Mars van Krevelen mechanism, which involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon by an oxygen atom of a metal oxide, is a well-known mechanism for the selective oxidation of alkanes. This mechanism is applied in the industrial production of maleic anhydride from butane."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis through mechanisms such as the Mars van Krevelen mechanism and H-abstraction. In the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, the metal oxide acts as a source of lattice oxygen for the oxidative cleavage of C-H bonds in the alkane. The metal center abstracts a hydrogen atom from the alkane, forming a hydroxyl group on the metal oxide surface and a radical on the alkane. The radical can then react with lattice oxygen to form a carbonyl group, which can further oxidize to form the desired product. This mechanism is widely used in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. The H-abstraction mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from the alkane substrate by a metal center, leading to the formation of an alkyl radical. This mechanism is also important for the selective oxidation of alkanes over metal oxide catalysts. The principles of these mechanisms are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. In this process, butane is oxidized to maleic anhydride over a metal-oxide catalyst, typically vanadium pentoxide on a silica support. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism is believed to be the dominant mechanism for this reaction, with the vanadium center acting as the redox mediator. The reaction is highly selective for maleic anhydride, with minimal formation of other oxygenates or coke.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          在多相催化中，氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心通过Mars van Krevelen机制和H-抽提等机制促进C-H键的活化。在Mars van Krevelen机制中，金属氧化物充当烷烃中C-H键氧化裂解的晶格氧源。金属中心从烷烃中抽提一个氢原子，在金属氧化物表面形成羟基，而在烷烃上形成自由基。然后，自由基可以与晶格氧反应形成羰基，进一步氧化形成所需产物。这种机制广泛用于工业中选择性氧化烷烃，例如将丁烷转化为马来酸酐。H-抽象机制涉及金属中心从烷基底物中抽象出一个氢原子，形成金属氢化物和自由基中间体。自由基中间体然后可以与吸附的氧分子反应，形成所需的氧酸产物。这些机制的原则被应用于工业选择性氧化烷基，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐。在这个过程中，丁烷在金属氧化物催化剂上被氧化为马来酸酐，通常是硅胶支持的五氧化二钒。火星-范克雷维尔机制被认为是该反应的主要机制，其中钒中心充当氧化还原介质。该反应对马来酸酐具有高度选择性，几乎不形成其他氧酸或焦炭。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
