I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Chemical ReviewsVol 100/Issue 6Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLEMay 24, 2000 Incorporation of Gallium into Zeolites: Syntheses, Properties and Catalytic Application Rolf FrickeHendrik KosslickGnter LischkeManfred Richter View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2000 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Catalysts Chemical Structure Gallium Ions Zeolites * Corresponding author.
Technische Fachhochschule Wildau.
I. Introduction
Zeolites are members of the tectosilicate family of minerals. 1,2 Zeolite frameworks consist of 4-fold-connected TO4 tetrahedra (T = Si, Al) forming three-dimensional networks. The corner linkage of tetrahedra is accomplished through TOT bridges. Therefore, each oxygen atom is shared between two neighboring tetrahedra and the binding capability is at its maximum. Thus, ideal zeolite crystals should have terminal silanol groups only on their external surface. 3 In contrast to other tectosilicates, the linkage of tetrahedra (Figure 1) within zeolites leads to open network structures. The tetrahedra (primary building units) form rings of various sizes which are linked to form complex units (secondary building units). 4 These secondary building units may be assembled in many ways to give a large number of different zeolite structure types. The network of interconnected tetrahedra constitutes the zeolite framework (Figure 2). The zeolite lattice comprises the (charged) framework, and cations at distinct sites needed to balance charge as well as guest molecules if present.
Zeolite crystals contain pore or channel systems of molecular dimensions with fixed geometry and size (Table 1). The pores are composed of oxygen rings. The number of oxygen atoms involved within these rings determine their assignment OnR, thus O10R stands for a connection of 10 oxygen atoms. Oxygen atoms with radii of ca. 1.36 Å surround the smaller central atoms of the tetrahedra nearly completely. Consequently, the interior surface of zeolites is nearly entirely composed of oxygen atoms (Figure 3). Nonframework cations and molecules within the pore system coordinate to framework oxygen atoms. Further interactions between these cations and sorbed molecules occur. Water, if present, can coordinate to these cations and interact with other sorbed molecules.
Figure 1 Representation of (Si,Al,Ga)O4 zeolite tetrahedra (primary building units) showing the limited size of the tetrahedral in comparison with the octahedral gap. (Reprinted with permission from ref 175. Copyright 1985 The Chemical Society of Japan.) Figure 2 Topology of secondary building units of zeolites obtained by linkage of tetrahedra through corners and their shortcut designations. Framework of the LTA and FAU structure type with indicated nonframework cation positions.
Figure 3 Oxygen rings of zeolites. Radii of cations in comparison to the free diameter of O6R and O8R. Balls represent oxygen atoms. Full lines connect the centers of tetrahedra (T-atoms).
Table 1. Main Characteristics of Zeolite Structures zeolite IZAcodea poresizeb poreopening Alrich medium Sirich SBUc FDd PDe MCM-41 M41Sf mes     (×) × 4,5,6g     1 MCM-48 M41S mes     (×) × 4,5,6g     3 cloverite CLO l O20R       4 44 11.1 3 VPI-5 VFI l O18R       6   14.2 AlPO-5 AFI l O12R       4,6   17.5 EMC-2 EMT l O12R   ×   4,6 66 12.9 3 faujasite FAU l O12R ×     4,6 66 12.7 3 offretite OFF l O12R   ×   6   15.5 2 gmelinite GME ml O12R   ×   4,6,8 66 14.6 gindeL LTL l O12R   ×   6   16.4 1 mazzite MAZ l O12R ×     4 51 16.1 1 ZSM-18 MEI l O12R   × × 3 61 14.3 mordenite MOR ml O12R   ×     51 17.2 2 beta BEA ml O12R     × 4 53 15.0 3 ZSM-12 MTW ml O12R     × 4 51 19.4 1 ZSM-11 MEL m O10R     ×   51 17.7 3 ZSM-5 MFI m O10R     ×   51 17.9 3 ZSM-22 TON m O10R     × 6 51 19.7 1 ZSM-23 MTT m O10R     ×   51 20.0 cancrinite CAN m O12R ×     6   16.7 EU-1 EUO m O10R     × 4 51 18.2 ferrierite FER m O10R   ×     51 17.7 3 erionite ERI s O8R   ×   6,4   15.6 3 Li-A(BW) ABW s O8R ×     4,6,8   19.0 A LTA s O8R ×     4,6 44 12.9 3 natrolite NAT s O8R   ×     41 17.8 sodalite SOD v-sl O6R × (×)   4,6   17.2 3 aIZA code based on IUPAC rules.bmes = mesoporous, l = large, ml = medium to large, m = medium, s = small, vs = very small.cSBU = secondary building units.dFD = framework density as T-atoms per 1000 Å3.ePD = dimensionality of the pore system.fProposed name of the family of mesoporous materials, no IZA code.gPossible oxygen rings occurring in the walls of MCM-41, derived from framework modeling.
According to the pore size, zeolites are classified into small-pore (pore size  5 Å, O8R), medium-pore (pore size 56 Å, O10R), and large-pore (pore size 78 Å, O12R) types. Typical representatives of the different types are zeolite A, ZSM-5, and the faujasites (X and Y), respectively.
Any tetrahedral Si4+ is surrounded by four O2- ions. The resulting SiO2 lattice is neutral because each O2- ion is shared by two tetrahedra. The isomorphous substitution of Si4+ by Al3+ or Ga3+ causes a negative excess charge of the framework. This framework anionic charge is compensated by loosely fixed cations located in the channels. In contrast to the semipolar character of bonds within the zeolite framework, the interaction between cations and the framework is of substantially ionic character. Unlike framework atoms, the interstitial cations can be exchanged by other cations from aqueous solutions. If cations are exchanged by protons, the zeolite acquires considerable Brnsted acidic properties and can be viewed as a solid acid.
Altogether, the structural diversity of zeolites discussed above is responsible for a wide range of interesting zeolite properties such as ion-exchange capacity, specific adsorption behavior, catalytic activity due to acidity, shape selectivity caused by size and polarity of molecules, high thermal stability and resistance against solvents, and wide flexibility for adjustments by isomorphous substitution of framework constituents.
The phenomenon of isomorphous substitution is well-known in the field of mineralogy. 5,6 By isomorphous substitution, framework atoms of crystalline compounds are replaced by atoms of other elements without changing the type of the crystal structure. 7 It could be shown that most elements are able to undergo substitution, at least to a very low degree. Even chromium, which prefers octahedral coordination, may substitute silicon in tetrahedral framework positions to a certain extent. 8,9 Extremely low degrees of substitution (0.2 atom %) can give rise to a remarkable change of properties.
Isomorphous substitution and replacement of exchangeable cations are important ways to modify zeolite properties for practical applications and have achieved considerable interest in the field of zeolite chemistry.1,4,6 The thermodynamics of isomorphous substitution have been considered by Barrer. 10 Ione and Vostrikova 11 summarized the main factors governing the isomorphous substitution as follows. (1) The tendency of substitution depends on the ratio of radii of the atoms involved. With an increasing difference of the radii Δr of atoms A and B, the substitution becomes energetically less favored. Substitution will occur if Δr/r  0.15, with r denoting the radius of the atoms to be replaced in the framework by atoms of another element. (2) A larger atom A replaces a smaller atom B more easily if the replacement leads to a decrease of the coordination number of atom A and vice versa. (3) The substitution is influenced by the electronegativity ratio and the ionization potentials of exchanging atoms. (4) During isomorphous replacement of A by B with maintenance of the local environment (coordination number), a minimum free energy is being achieved with Δr/r = 0.0250.03. (5) Isomorphous substitution is facilitated as long as replacement of A by B does not change long-range electrostatic interactions. (6) Substitution may also occur when the charges of exchanged atoms differ by 1, 2, or 3 units. (7) Exchanging atoms should not react with each other.
Pauling13 formulated the main criteria for the occurrence of isomorphous substitution, which are primarily derived from crystal chemistry and geometric considerations. The basic idea is that frameworks of crystals, i.e., silicates including zeolites, consist of packages of negatively charged oxygen anions (O2-). Therefore, tetrahedral and octahedral vacancies are formed. The size of these vacancies depends on the size of the anions. According to Pauling, cations prefer tetrahedral coordination if ρ = rMe/rO2 = 0.2140.4 and octahedral sites if ρ = 0.40.6. Ions larger than 0.55 Å, therefore, prefer octahedral coordination in oxygen lattices. A list of representative atoms and corresponding ρ values is given in Table 2.
Table 2. Electronegativities, Radii, and Radii Ratios of Substituted Atoms after Allred, Pauling, Shannon electronegativity element Allred12 Pauling13 radius/Å rMez+14 distance/Å rMe-Oa radiusratio Q=rMe/rO2 Si4+ 1.74 1.90 0.26 1.62 0.20
B3+ 2.01 2.04 0.11 1.47 0.08
Al3+ 1.47 1.61 0.39 1.75 0.29 Ga3+ 1.82 1.81 0.47 1.83 0.35 Fe3+ 1.64 1.83 0.4715 1.8312d 0.35 In3+ 1.49 1.78 0.62 1.98 0.46 aFor rO2 = 1.36 Å.According to Pauling's rule of gradients, Ga is located close to the frontier between tetrahedral and octahedral coordination. Taking into account that gallium in alkaline solutions prefers the formation of tetrahedrally coordinated galliate anions,16 it is also conceivable that this element has a good chance to substitute silicon in tetrahedral framework positions.It is worth mentioning that all rules cited above are not strict laws. Additionally, the free space available in oxygen polyhedra is partly dependent on the crystal structure. For instance, in the case of aluminophosphates or gallophosphates with large AlO4, GaO4 and small PO4 tetrahedra,17,18 4-fold coordinated Me3+ sites may also be accessible to larger atoms 19-21 like Co2+ and Mg2+. The ability of the framework to change its fine structure (bond angles and distances) by rotation of the tetrahedra, by tilting, or by inversion is important in order to relax the strain resulting from the substituting atom. 22 The motivation for replacing aluminum in aluminosilicate zeolite structures by other elements arose from the need to adjust their properties to intended applications. The aim of substitution is the complete integration of the modifying element into the framework while preserving the structure type. Often a certain percentage of the modifier remains on positions outside the framework (nonframework Me species). Depending on the synthesis conditions, a certain part of the element can be deposited in the form of clusters or cluster oxides in the porous network or on the external surface of the zeolite crystals. A postsynthesis modification by ion exchange (and partially by impregnation) replaces cations predominantly on cation positions (lattice sites).Zeolitic materials are vastly applied as ion exchangers, selective adsorbents, catalysts, and catalyst supports. Industrial applications of zeolites are discussed in several reviews. 23-25 Zeolites as catalyst components are no longer confined to production of bulk chemicals and to the petroleum refining industry (cracking, hydrocracking, dewaxing, isomerization, alkylation, disproportionation). The breakthrough of gallium-bearing zeolites was found in the aromatization of lower alkanes (Cyclar process) where the activity is ascribed predominantly to nonframework gallium species. A further field of catalytic application is the isomerization of alkylaromatics.Catalytic processes for fine chemical productions and oxidation reactions are amenable to the employment of tuned and novel zeolites. 26-28 Another prospective area of zeolite application can be seen in environmental catalysis, 29,30 where hazardous substances in exhaust streams are effectively converted in less noxious or harmless substances by the catalytic action of modified zeolites. The reduction of NO and NO2 in exhaust gas streams of mobile and stationary engines is processed in excess air under addition of methane by gallium-based zeolites in a selective way. 31-33
A. Scope of the Review
The present review considers the synthesis, characterization, and catalytic application of gallium-containing microporous and mesoporous materials focusing on the isomorphous substitution of gallium into zeolite frameworks. Usually, incorporation of gallium into the solid material is achieved during the crystallization process, mostly performed in the presence of a suitable templating agent. Basic principles of the applied procedures, which are of fundamental importance for the synthesis of any aluminosilicate zeolite, are outlined by an introductory chapter. Experimental ways of postsynthesis incorporation of gallium into framework positions of zeolites are considered in section III. Physicochemical methods to characterize the nature and the properties of gallium incorporated into the framework as well as cations or nonframework species are described in section IV.
Section V summarizes the knowledge of the role of lattice defects and the hydrothermal stability of gallium in framework positions. The classification of Ga-substituted zeolite structures according to their Si/Ga ratio is given in a separate section. A special emphasis is placed on the catalytic properties of gallium-containing porous solid materials including gallophosphates and gallium-substituted mesoporous silica.
B. Terminology
Frequently, linguistic usage does not clearly distinguish between zeolites and molecular sieves. Molecular sieves is a generic term comprising crystalline microporous solid materials of various compositions. The designation emphasizes one of the favorite properties of these materials, viz. to act as a sieve of molecular dimensions. The term zeolite refers to crystalline microporous aluminosilicates built of SiO4 and AlO4 tetrahedra. In a strict sense, alumino- and gallophosphate structures consisting of AlO4 or GaO4 and PO4 tetahedra are not zeolites.
For microporous crystalline materials of zeolite-analogous structures with MeIIO4 and SiO4 tetrahedra arranged according to the framework topology of zeolites, designations such as metal silicate, metallosilicate, or metal-modified zeolite are used synonymously.
The most widely studied metallosilicate systems are gallosilicates, ferrisilicates, borosilicates, and titanium silicates. Even among this family of metallosilicates, no unique terminology exists. Instead of gallosilicate, the term galliosilicates is found. The term ferri- for iron-substituted silicalite obviously states that iron is incorporated in the valence state of 3+.
In the case of synthetic materials, one has to differentiate between the as-synthesized products which contain the occluded organic template and the calcined products obtained after burning off the templates. Prior to catalytic or adsorptive application, the template has to be removed, otherwise the pore system would be blocked.
Each unique framework topology (i.e., four-connected net) is designated by a structure-type code consisting of three capital Roman letters, only. These mnemonic codes are generally derived from the names of the type materials and do not depend on composition and distribution of the tetrahedrally coordinated atoms (Si, Al, P, Ga, Ge, B, Be, etc.), cell dimensions, or symmetry. The assignment of structure-type codes follows the IZA Structure Commission. To date, 126 structure-type codes have been introduced. Ninety-eight of these codes appear in the fourth edition of the Atlas of Zeolite Structure Types. 34 This is accessible on-line under the address http://www.iza-sc.ethz.ch/IZA-sc/AtlasHome.html.
In this review, materials which were synthesized without any aluminum source in the synthesis gel (aside from traces of impurity aluminum which is often contained in other ingredients) will be designated as gallosilicates. Following the zeolite literature where the ions at exchange positions are often indicated by simply adding the chemical symbol of the metal to the zeolite acronyms, we indicate a framework-substituted element by combining the symbol (e.g., gallium) enclosed into brackets with the name of the given zeolite or the structure-type code. Thus, [Ga]-ZSM-5 symbolizes a gallosilicate of MFI structure where aluminum is completely replaced by gallium in framework positions. If, additionally, aluminum is present besides gallium, both symbols are given in brackets, e.g., [Ga,Al]-ZSM-5. The term Ga-ZSM-5 will be chosen for any gallium-modified aluminosilicate ZSM-5 with gallium cations introduced by ion-exchange procedures. Samples synthesized by impregnation or mechanical mixing are designated as Ga/ZSM-5. Abbreviations used for samples prepared by other procedures will be explained as they appear.
Generally, the term lattice is distinguished from the term framework. Lattice is understood to comprise cations both within the framework and at defined interstitial exchange positions located in the oxygen rings, windows, and cavities.
Within this review, the above nomenclature will be obeyed as long as the necessary information has been provided by the authors of the cited paper.
II. Synthesis of Zeolites
A. General Aspects
The fundamental procedures for the synthesis of zeolites are fairly similar irrespective of composition and structure. Generally, synthesis comprises the key steps schematically illustrated for Me3+-rich (early) and novel silicon-rich zeolites in Figure 4. 35 Figure 4 Schematic representation of synthesis methods for (a) Ga-rich zeolites (adapted from early Al-rich syntheses) and (b) siliceous Ga-substituted zeolites.
In any case, zeolite synthesis gels contain the silicon source, an alkaline base, one or more Me3+ compounds (mostly salts), and organic templates (alkylamines or other organic compounds) as structure-directing agents. The gel, which contains highly condensed anions, is usually aged for a certain time below the crystallization temperature. Frequently, this aging period is crucial for obtaining a desired product at appropriate rates and with high yield. Moreover, aging may influence the structural type of the synthesized zeolite. 36 To avoid postsynthesis changes of the synthesis product (e.g., by redissolution processes 37), the reaction is stopped after completion by quenching the autoclave in cold water or in an ice bath. In the as-synthesized zeolite, the negative framework charge is balanced by interstitial alkaline, alkaline earth, and/or alkylammonium ions. The removal of alkaline bases by thorough washing is essential, because residual alkaline bases decrease the thermal stability of the crystal structure or promote a structural collapse of the synthesized zeolite in the final calcination step. Calcination, usually carried out at 550 C in air for ca. 2 h, is necessary to remove organic template molecules by thermal decomposition 38,39 and by burning off. SiO2, a possible coproduct, can be removed from the as-synthesized solid by careful treatment with a NaOH solution at elevated temperatures. 40 The success of synthesis is ascertained by determining the Si/Me3+ ratio of the bulk phase by ICP, EDX, etc., or the Si/Me3+ ratio of the surface by XPS.
The concentration and kind of cation of the alkaline base influence the structure type of the synthesized molecular sieve. Hydroxides (usually NaOH, sometimes LiOH, KOH, CsOH, and alkaline earth hydroxides) are necessary for the formation of tetrahedral metalate ions Me(OH)4- which condense to silicate species incorporating tetrahedrally oxygen-coordinated metal ions such as Al, Ga, Fe, or Co and others. Due to their mineralizing properties, hydroxides cause depolymerization of polycondensed silicate species and hydrolysis of siliconorganic compounds such as tetraethyl orthosilicate.44 Besides their mineralizing role, alkaline cations play a directing role in the formation of silicate species and can additionally affect zeolite formation by ordering water clusters via their structure-making (Na+, Li+) or structure-breaking (K+, Rb+, Cs+ and NH4+) properties.10,44-46 Various ion-exchange processes are applied to transform the template-free zeolite into the standard alkaline (usually Na form)41-43 or hydrogen form. The latter is obtained after exchanging the interstitial alkaline cations by ammonium ions and their thermal decomposition.
Usually, synthesis gels are aqueous solutions. Water acts as solvent and as a guest molecule. Hostguest interactions stabilize the porous structure of the formed zeolites.
The silicon source, the structure-building component of the zeolites, is mostly a silicasol, waterglass, silica gel, or SiO2 of high surface area (>200 m2/g). In some cases, hydrolyzable siliconorganic compounds, like tetraethyl orthosilicate, are used.
The conditions of chemical and thermal treatment have an important impact on the physicochemical and catalytic properties of the synthesized zeolite.40 Me3+ ions, which give rise to ion-exchange capacities and to acid sites, act as structure modifiers. Their presence in the gel increases its ionic strength, resulting in the immediate appearance of solid gel units with a network of colloidal particles. 47 To prepare Ga-containing zeolites, the use of reactive Ga(OH)4- complex salts is recommended. This way, disturbing influences by additional anions, present in the case of the metal salts, are avoided. Nevertheless, gallium nitrate or sulfate as well as Ga(CH3)3 have been applied.
B. Role of Templates
Organic template molecules exert a structure-directing influence. Typically, primary, secondary, tertiary, and quarternary amines, alcohols, and crown ethers are used. Obtained zeolite structures are stabilized by the included organic compounds. They increase crystallinity and influence the Si/Me framework ratios. In certain cases, crystallization of a zeolite type fails without the use of a template.
Unlike many TOT angles, the SiOSi angle within silicate-like compounds is highly flexible. 48,49 Therefore, a great variety of structures with differently sized oxygen rings and their mutual connections is attainable. 50 Silicon-rich framework structures often contain large fractions of oxygen-5-rings, the formation of which is less favored in Me3+-rich zeolites with low-angle Me-OSi bridges. The angle of SiOSi bridges is close to 145. It exhibits only a low energetic barrier to variations between 135 and 165. Larger and smaller bridge angles would cause a sharp increase in the energy and are less favored. A study of naturally occurring silicates shows that compounds containing oxygen-4-rings and oxygen-6-rings are abundant, whereas oxygen-5-ring and oxygen-3-ring silicates are rare. 51 The SiOSi angles in all these configurations are close to the angle of energy minimization (Figure 5).
Figure 5 SiOSi angle frequency distributions for Si-containing tetrahedral rings observed for silicates and siloxanes. The bold arrows indicate the mean values, and the other arrows with Schoenflies notation mark the SiOSi angles calculated for the ab initio optimized geometries for cyclotrisiloxane and cyclotetrasiloxane. (Reprinted with permission from ref 51. Copyright 1981 Mineralogical Society of America.) By variation of the nature of the organic template, the broad spectrum of silicon-rich zeolites 52,53 with large intertetrahedral angles or other framework structures containing energetically unfavorable TOT bridges becomes accessible. Thus, new alumino-54 and gallophosphate55 molecular sieve structures could be synthesized.
The template in the synthesis gel can act in different ways:56 (a) as space-filling species, (b) as a structure-directing agent, or (c) by directly coining the symmetry of the zeolite cage.
Since the surface of silicon-rich zeolites is mainly hydrophobic, the organic will migrate from the hydrophilic aqueous reaction mixture into these regions. With increasing chain length of alkyl groups, the template becomes increasingly hydrophobic. Template molecules thermodynamically stabilize the zeolite structure due to hostguest interaction. This action is similar to that found with intercalation compounds.8 Additionally, alkylammonium ions can counterbalance negative framework charges such as those of defect SiO- groups, which may be formed at strained SiOSi bridges. There, geometric constraints of the framework require the formation of energetically unfavorable SiO distances and angles. The interaction of the template with precursors in the gel or in parts of the framework may stabilize and promote the formation of either energetically less favored oxygen-ring structures or of internal not fully interconnected SiO- defect groups.Lobo et al.50 studied the transfer of different alkylammonium ions from an aqueous solution to a chloroform phase as a function of the C/N+ ratio (Figure 6). The percentage of transfer is a measure for the hydrophobic character of the templates. The authors found that in the range 11 < C/N+ < 15, alkylammonium ions show an intermediate position between hydrophilic and hydrophobic behavior. Interestingly, these ions work well as templates and make the crystallization of a great variety of new high-silica molecular sieves possible. 57-59 Figure 6 Partition of quarternary organic ammonium ions between water and chloroform depending on the carbon number of the hydrophobic rest (expressed as C/N+ ratio). C/N+ = 4 tetramethylammonium, C/N+ = 8 tetraethylammonium, C/N+ = 16 tetrabutylammonium. (Reprinted with permission from ref 50. Copyright 1995 Kluwer Academic Publishers.) Attempts to use templates for the synthesis of chiral molecular sieve structures have failed until now. Adsorbed or incorporated prochiral or chiral molecules show an unexpected high mobility36,47 despite their location at specific sites in the zeolite cavity. 60,61 Such high mobility is detrimental to the actual templating function.From these considerations, the importance of the templates for the synthesis of new high-silica zeolites and of other framework structures containing energetically unfavorable TOT bridges such as aluminophosphate and gallophosphate molecular sieves is understandable. However, a detailed understanding of the role of the template during synthesis is not yet achieved.
C. Mechanism and Kinetics of the Crystallization Process
One important step that occurs during crystallization is the (partial) dissolution or depolymerization of the silica. 62 Different chainlike, cyclic, double-ring, and other oligomeric silicate species are formed.36,45-47,62,63 In the range of alkalinity 9 < pH < 12, where synthesis of zeolites usually proceeds, silica chemistry is characterized by simultaneous polymerizationdepolymerization processes. The coordination number of silicon in these anionic silicate species is four. Due to the hydrolytic action of hydroxides OH-, these species are negatively charged: The presence of high-valent cations such as Ga3+ leads to a decrease in the solubility of silicate anions due to coagulation and condensation. 11,64 Primarily, a heteropolymerization reaction of the type catalyzed by hydroxyl ions occurs: It is still a matter of debate whether crystallization proceeds in the liquid or solid phase and what the properties and the function of the precursor gel are like.56,65,66 There is some indication that formation and transformation of the precursor gel play an important role in the crystallization of MFI-type zeolites. 67,68 However, a direct liquid-phase crystallization has been reported also. 69 Three possible mechanisms of zeolite formation from these gels have been hypothetically established: (1) Solid-phase transformation of the precipitated solid gel without contribution of the surrounding solgel phase; 70 (2) Rearrangement processes including surface diffusion mechanism of reactive species within the gels; 71 (3) Crystallization of the zeolite from the liquid phase (probably from special silicate anions which represent subunits by themselves or are easily rearranged into different subunits) where the cations play an important role. 72,73 Precursor aggregates, appearing during nucleation and subsequent rearrangement in the course of crystal growth of silicalite-1 in the liquid phase, were studied in situ by low- and wide-angle X-ray diffraction (SAXS and WAXS).65 Crystallization starts with the formation of large aggregates with rough (fractal) surfaces and is completed forming crystals with energetically favorable smooth external surfaces proved by light scattering experiments. 74 Hence, crystallization has to be understood as a continuous process with overlapping areas of nucleation and crystallization. 75-79 This kind of mechanism explains why the rate of formation of nuclei passes through a maximum.The process in the liquid phase is not really homogeneous but involves complex transformation and reorganization steps (Figure 7). SAXS and WAXS experiments show that both, homogeneous and heterogeneous crystallization are involved. They are connected with the presence of an intermediate gel phase. In heterogeneous systems, the precipitated solid gel must be dissolved before zeolite crystallization starts.65 Figure 7 Possible steps of zeolite formation in the gel: (a) silicalite-1/TPA cluster in solution, (b) primary aggregates (fractural dimension) of silicalite-1/TPA clusters (6.4 nm), (c) condensation of primary aggregates, (d) aggregation of condensed particles into secondary particles of fractural dimension followed by crystallization, (e) condensation of secondary aggregates and crystal growth. (Reprinted with permission from ref 65. Copyright 1995 VCH Verlagsgesellschaft mbH.) Kinetics of the crystallization process are often represented by S-shaped curves. 80 Although carefully studied, the derived values of apparent energies of nucleation and crystallization should be considered with caution. Zeolite crystallization experiments are quite commonly analyzed by means of a crystallization curve which represents the evolution of zeolite mass in the batch in the course of time. This curve involves the determination of the induction time and of the slope of the crystallization curve to quantify nucleation and crystallization rates.
D. Other Synthesis Techniques1. Rapid Crystallization
This method comprises special experimental measures during zeolite synthesis, which have proved to reduce the crystallization time considerably, simultaneously guaranteeing a uniform crystal size. The most pronounced effect is observed when the precipitated gel is ball-milled and hydrothermal synthesis is performed by a temperature-programmed procedure. A structural series of ZSM-5 zeolites has been synthesized following features of preparation. 81,82 (i) The crystallization process is performed nonisothermally, i.e., the temperature is raised from 160 to 310 C at a constant heating rate of 0.16 deg/min under constant stirring of the autoclave at 60 rpm. (ii) After centrifugal separation of the gel mixture from the mother liquor, the gel is mechanically ground in a mortar and then returned to the mother liquor. The nonisothermal procedure for crystallization is maintained. (iii) Addition and combination of solutions are modified in order to minimize local differences in composition and to maintain constant pH values and temperatures during the precipitation.
The combined application of all variants, which is also applied for the synthesis of metallosilicates, is actually understood by the term rapid crystallization method. Additionally, metal-preloaded seed materials (supported metal salts on α and γ alumina) may be used in the process.
2. Synthesis from Nonalkaline Media
To prevent the presence of Na or any other alkali ion, the NH4 forms of high-silica MFI zeolites with heteroatom-containing frameworks (boron, aluminum, and gallium) have been synthesized directly from an alkali-free system in the presence of fluoride ions by Dwyer et al. 83 Using this method, a fairly high degree of substitution by heteroatoms can also be achieved in the galliumsilica system. The composition of products can be controlled by modifying the fluoride concentration and the pH value of the reaction mixtures. Fluoride ions are able to increase the solubility of the raw material sources 84 and keep the crystallization environment at pH < 7. This way, the TPA+/NH4+ form of ZSM-5 was obtained directly in large crystals and metal-containing zeolites can be prepared conveniently. 85 Axon and Klinowski 86 demonstrated by 29Si MAS NMR and nitrogen adsorption isotherms that MFI zeolites synthesized by the fluoride method are virtually free from structural defects. Such defects (e.g., internal silanol groups) are usually present in crystals prepared by conventional synthesis methods and can be removed by a longer hydrothermal treatment only, as reported for ZSM-5 by Dessau et al. 87 Fluoride anions may turn out to be a multifunctional tool for the synthesis of microporous gallophosphate solids as will be shown later.
3. Template-Free Synthesis Routes
A template-free synthesis of zeolite ZSM-5 88-91 and of Gasilicates with MFI structure has been reported. Depending on the surface area of the silica source, the dense silica phase of the synthesized gallosilicate may amount up to 50%. Its fraction, however, could be reduced by decreasing the surface area of the silica source91 drastically from 380 to 22 m2. The highest [Ga]-MFI contents (70%) were achieved with molar ratios of SiO2/Ga2O3 = 119140. Formation of dense silica could be suppressed by using an X-ray amorphous seeding gel (i.e., a gallosilicate gel which was aged for several days at a temperature between 20 and 90 C). Synthesis was performed by the addition of NaOH, amorphous silica, GaCl3 solution, and water to the seeding gel. Hydrothermal treatment yields pure Ga-MFI crystals with almost homogeneous Ga distribution (electron microprobe analysis) with Ga completely in framework positions, as follows from the balance between Brnsted acidic sites estimated by 1H MAS NMR and the chemically determined total concentration.
4. Microwave-Supported Synthesis
Recently, microwave heating has been applied increasingly to synthesize zeolites. By heating at a frequency of 2.45 GHz, hindered rotations of the water molecules are promoted 92 and the energy of microwave radiation is converted into heat by internal friction. A selective heating of areas containing water is achieved. Due to internal warming up, the heating rate is considerably increased and heat gradients occurring in the period of temperature rise are diminished. This way, a rapid temperature increase of the synthesis gel is obtained and synthesis times are reduced substantially. Zeolites A and X, hydroxy sodalite, and TMA sodalite were prepared in very short times. Effects on isomorphous substitution and on the Si/Me framework ratio (Zeolite Y) have also been reported. Metal-substituted aluminophosphate molecular sieves could be synthesized in 1 min instead of hours. Microwave synthesis of gallosilicate zeolites has not been reported so far. However, the gallophosphate large-pore molecular sieve cloverite has been synthesized advantageously by this technique.
The benefits of microwave heating are as follows: (i) An increased condensation rate according to owing to a faster transport of released water (volume heating). (ii) Availability of diversified modifications of synthesis conditions by varying the time and regime of microwave radiation (continuous and pulsed radiation, temperature regime, controlled and reproducible energy input). (iii) Fast supersaturation by the rapid dissolution of precipitated gels due to volumetric heating.
Application of microwave heating is limited by the penetration depth of ca. 2.5 cm in the aqueous solution.
III. Gallosilicates and Gallium-Modified Zeolites
A. Gallium Framework Substitution via Hydrothermal Crystallization1. Principles
Trivalent gallium incorporated into the framework is the origin of the negative charge of the lattice which gives rise to Brnsted acidic SiOHGa bridging hydroxyl groups and hence to ion-exchange properties. In Ga-rich zeolites, the GaO4 tetrahedra may act as a framework builder by themselves.
The knowledge about chemical processes occurring during the synthesis of gallosilicate zeolites is still incomplete. By analogy with results from studies of aluminosilicate solutions, it can be assumed that the gallosilicate formation with respect to kinetics and structure type is influenced by the existence of various (gallo)silicate species in the gel. 93,94 The distribution among them depends strongly on the pH value of the solution, the composition of the gel, and the nature of the hydroxide. The latter reflects the influence of cations and organics (templates) on the structuring. A thorough understanding of the chemistry between silicate and gallate anions in dilute solutions might be a first step toward the understanding of the zeolitization of gallosilicates as a whole.
With regard to its chemical behavior, gallium displays a strong similarity to aluminum16,79 exhibiting, however, a higher basicity. Gallium is mainly present as Ga(OH)4- ions in the alkaline solutions of synthesis gels. Like aluminum, gallium may also form more complex heterocations such as GaO(OH), Ga(OH)2+, etc. in alkaline solutions (Figure 8). It is apparent that higher condensed species may precipitate or form more complex gallosilicate ions. Some of them are not involved into zeolite formation. This is found, in particular, for high-silica zeolites of the ZSM type.
Figure 8 Distribution of Si species in a 0.1 M Si(IV) solution and of Mex(OH)y(3x-y)+ (Me = Al, Ga) species in a 0.1 M Al(III) and 0.1 M Ga(III) solution, respectively, at 25 C depending on the pH value. 13,32 and 26,65 indicate hypothetical polymeric species which fit the data. (Reprinted with permission from ref 16. Copyright 1986 Robert E. Krieger Publishing Company.) NMR studies on aluminum-containing zeolites revealed that tetrahedrally coordinated silicon ions may be connected to 14 aluminum atoms via oxygen bridges (second coordination sphere) forming three-dimensional 4-fold-connected SiO4/2 frameworks. 95 This was recently confirmed also for gallosilicate frameworks, where Si(OGa)n groups with n = 14 were found. 96-101 Each gallium is connected (via oxygen bridges) to silicon atoms in the second coordination sphere. In accordance with the Loewenstein avoidance rule,100 GaOGa framework linkages have not be detected so far. Computation has shown that the formation of SiOMe bridges is energetically favored over the formation of SiOSi bridges.101 The sum of the bond energies of two AlOSi groups is lower than that of one AlOAl and one SiOSi group. This is reflected in the precipitation behavior of metal hydrosilicates during the dissolution of complex silicates. 102 As long as silicon is available, SiOGa bridges will be formed. The number n in Si(OGa)n depends on the gallium content of the synthesis gel, i.e., increasing gallium content is expected to give lower Si/Ga ratios in the zeolites. Whether Ga or Al is distributed statistically in the zeolite framework is not clear. The intensity ratios of Si NMR signals belonging to the different Si(OMe)n groups (n = 14) can be simulated assuming both a statistical and an ordered arrangement of Ga atoms. 103-106 It is supposed that the conditions of the hydrothermal crystallization and/or of the following postsynthesis treatment may have an essential influence on the distribution of the different kinds of atoms within the framework.
Depolymerization of silica as well as Ga(OH)4- formation consume OH- ions causing a drop of the pH value of the gel. On the other hand, preceding condensation, crystal growth and Ga incorporation release OH- ions. All these processes may occur simultaneously. Generally, the gallosilicate species are less soluble than pure silicate species and precipitate easily.102 Basic solutions favor the formation of gallate ions Ga(OH)4- which are essential for a successful incorporation of gallium. Gallosilicate solutions obtained by dissolving fumed silica in aqueous TPAOH or TMAOH followed by addition of gallium nitrate solution were investigated by means of 29Si and 71Ga NMR spectroscopy at room temperature to clarify the ratio of silicate and gallosilicate species and their nature. 107 The Si/Ga ratios of the gels varied from 5 to . Si/TPA2O ratios (TPA2O = tetrapropylammonium oxide) were held between 0.05 and 2. Under these conditions, no solid gel precipitates. Immediately after the addition of small amounts of gallium to the silicate solution, new peaks appear in the NMR spectra that can be attributed to gallosilicate anions. This finding supports and explains IR results which conclusively prove the formation of GaOSi gallosiloxane groups in the amorphous hydrogel during the nucleation period 108 already. With gallium, only anions with Si(1Ga) groups are observed. Aluminum, in contrast, is incorporated forming a broad variety of anions, among them Si(1Al) and Si(2Al) groups. Thus, higher contents of the trivalent cation are gained. Consequently, attainable maximum Ga contents of silicon-rich gallosilicate zeolites should be lower than Al contents of comparable aluminosilicate structures. Nevertheless, Ga-rich zeolites do exist.In gallosilicate solutions,107 mainly three-membered rings (S3R), branched S3R, and double three-membered rings (D3R) are detectable (Figure 9). The latter are extremely stable and become dominant at temperatures commonly applied for zeolite synthesis. In contrast to the corresponding aluminosilicate solutions, linear dimers and trimers could not be observed.94 The 29Si NMR and 71Ga NMR signals broaden after addition of Ga or Si compounds to the solutions. The 71Ga signal of monomeric gallate Ga(OH)4- anions in aqueous alkaline solution appears at 222 ppm. The upfield shift of the 71Ga resonance to 215 ppm after silicon addition is tentatively assigned to the formation of Ga connected to 0 or 1 siloxane bond. The broad signal at <180 ppm is attributed to Ga connected with 2 or 3(4) siloxane bonds. Signal broadening is assumed to be caused by a rapid exchange of gallium and silicon atoms between gallosilicate species and solution. Remarkably, this exchange would be faster than in aluminosilicate solutions. This conclusion, however, must be considered with caution because field inhomogenities, ion pairing, and other factors may contribute to line broadening. 109 The observed broadening (and shift of the 71Ga signal) is closely related to the silicon content and the basicity of the gallosilicate gels (Figure 10). Broadening increases with growing silicon and decreasing TPAOH contents, indicating that both are related to the connectivity of gallosilicate species. Higher silicon contents favor the formation of gallosilicate anions at the expense of monomeric gallate anions. Lower basicity enhances the condensation of low condensed silicates. Thus, line broadening might be an effect of the distortion of the SiOSi or SiOT bridges in the gallosilicate species. Generally, variations in bond lengths and angles are known to cause 29Si line shifts and broadening. The SiOGa angle (120) is rather low.Figure 9 29Si NMR spectra of tetrapropylammonium (TPA) gallosilicate solutions prepared by mixing fumed silica dissolved in 40 wt % aqueous TPAOH and aqueous Ga(NO3)3; [SiO2]/[(TPA)2O] molar ratio = 1: (a) Si/Ga molar ratio = , (b) Si/Ga = 10, (c) Si/Ga = 5, (d) Si/Ga = 4, (e) Si/Ga = 3, (f) Si/Ga = 2. Ga incorporates into single three rings (S3R), branched S3R (b-S3R), and double three-ring (D3R) anions. Spectra recorded at 0 C. (Reprinted with permission from ref 107. Copyright 1992 American Chemical Society.) Figure 10 71Ga NMR spectra of tetrapropylammonium (TPA) gallosilicate solutions taken at 22 C: 0. 4 mol % Ga, 2 mol % (TPA)2O, (a) no Si, (b) R = 0.05, Si/Ga molar ratio = 0.25, (c) R = 0.125, Si/Ga = 0.625, (d) R = 0.25, Si/Ga = 1.25, (e) R = 0.375, Si/Ga = 1.875, (f) R = 0.5, Si/Ga = 2.5, (g) R = 0.625, Si/Ga 3.125, (h) R = 0.75, Si/Ga = 3.75, (i) R = 0.875, Si/Ga = 4.375, (j) R = 1.0, Si/Ga = 5. 71Ga spectral frequencies are referenced to a 1 M aqueous Ga(NO3)3 solution. R = [SiO2]/[(TPA)2O]. (Reprinted with permission from ref 107. Copyright 1992 American Chemical Society.) In contrast to aluminosilicate solutions, the formation of higher oligomers of gallosilicates such as D4R (1Ga) is not observed. This might be explained by the long GaO bond length of rGa-O  1.9 Å in comparison with the AlO and SiO bond lengths of rAl-O  1.77 Å and rSi-O  1.62 Å. The resulting strain makes the D4R (1Ga) anion rather unstable. 110 Results can be explained by a simple set of reactions. First, SiO2 dissolves in the alkaline solution yielding monomeric silicate anions (S1x-) according to These monomers polymerize via condensation of silanol groups and yield oligomeric species Snx-. Subsequently, gallate anions (Ga1-) react with these silicate species releasing hydroxide groups. Thus, the influence of pH, gel composition, and temperature on the distribution of silicate and gallosilicate species is explained.Rapid formation of gallosilicate species within silicon-rich synthesis gels is also evidenced by EXAFS and XANES studies. In the aqueous as well as in the solid gel phase, gallium is found in tetrahedral coordination only. The EXAFS spectra are very similar to those of crystalline zeolites, indicating that their gallosilicate networks in the respective states are comparable. Only small deviations in the XANES fingerprints indicate some differences in the local environment of gallium in the different states. 111 Ga EXAFS spectra of silicon-rich gallosilicate gels are quite different from those of pure gallate solutions and of solid Ga2O3, indicating the absence of gallate or oxidic species in the gel. GaOGa bridges are absent in the dissolved state already, i.e., the neighbors of gallium are silicon atoms only. Gallium atoms are isolated and highly dispersed even at the very beginning of the hydrothermal reaction. 112 In contrast, gallium-rich (low-silicon) gel mixtures with Si/Ga ratios lower than 2, e.g., gels used for gallofaujasite synthesis, also contain free gallate anions as well as gallosilicate species with 12 siloxane linkages.107 Then, the formation of gallo-rich zeolite structures is enabled. Gallosilicate faujasites exhibit the same Si/Me3+ framework ratios as the corresponding aluminosilicates. No D4R is found in the liquid gallosilicate gels, not even after addition of TMA/DMSO, which is known to support D4R formation. This finding agrees with conclusions drawn by Lechert and Kocirik. 113 From their kinetic (model) studies of faujasite-type zeolites, they concluded that crystal growth in low-silicon (Al-rich) zeolites proceeds by a stepwise deposition of monomeric low-condensed species rather than of secondary subunits (aggregates) on the crystal faces.In summary, silicate and gallate anions of the gel react very rapidly. The reactions are similar to those appearing in aluminosilicate solutions and follow the same patterns if the silica, metal, or base contents are changed. Remarkable differences, surely due to structural constraints (size of gallium, GaO distance, and SiOGa bond angle), however, become apparent: (a) a tendency to form strained anions of S3R-type (restricted gallate-silicate reaction), (b) a lower degree of gallium incorporation, and (c) the absence of larger silicate oligomers with gallium. In addition, alumino- and gallosilicate solutions may differ in the distribution of different types of species. It has to be concluded that the synthesis of gallosilicate zeolites is more sensitive to gel composition and preparation conditions.
2. The Temporal Course of Crystallization
Studies on the temporal course of the crystallization process leading to gallium-substituted zeolites are relatively rare. The majority of available studies37,108,114-116 deal with MFI-type zeolites (Figure 11). A detailed knowledge on the crystallization steps is essential for the optimization of synthesis parameters (like time, temperature, and composition), for the replacement of expensive gel ingredients, and for the control of the synthesis procedure. With respect to isomorphous substitution, it is of interest to investigate whether the substitution of aluminum or silicon by the larger gallium atoms leads to any changes in the crystallization process. A disruptive nature of isomorphous substitution was proposed from comparative studies on MFI-type zeolites with and without Al substitution ([Al]-ZSM-5 and silicalite-1, respectively).43 Crystallization studies5 have shown that the presence of aluminum hinders the growth of MFI-type structures. A negative impact might be indicated by increased values of the activation energies of nucleation and crystallization.
Figure 11 Influence of the Si/Ga ratio in the synthesis gel on the temporal course of crystallization of [Ga]-ZSM-5: (1) Si/Ga = 100, (2) Si/Ga = 25, (3) Si/Ga = 50. (Reprinted with permission from ref 108. Copyright 1992 Akademie Verlag GmbH.) Difficulties and uncertainties in comparing crystallization results reported in the literature arise mostly from varying experimental parameters (i.e., different chemicals and synthesis conditions) and from the nonconformity of the criteria applied to evaluate the obtained data. Apparently, [Ga]-ZSM-5 zeolites of identical chemical composition (often expressed in terms of the Si/Ga ratios) can differ in the actual degree of isomorphous substitution. The extent of isomorphous substitution of high-silica zeolites is not easily determined.
Awate et al.114 investigated the course of crystallization of gallosilicates with MFI structure from sodium gallosilicate gels using triethyl-n-butylammonium bromide (Si/Ga = 20, 42, 200, ; T = 160, 180, and 200 C). The products were characterized by XRD, mid-IR, TG-DTA, as well as 29Si and 71Ga NMR in order to follow gallium incorporation into the framework. Isomorphous substitution by gallium is evidenced by the increase of the unit cell volume from 5280 to 5400 Å. The Si/Ga ratio of the product was close to that in the gel. Crystallization kinetics were analyzed by the AvaramiErofeev equation 117 ln[1/(1  α)] = ktm, with α and t being the fractional conversion into zeolite and the synthesis time, respectively. k and m are constants. k, which is related to the velocity of crystallization, increases and m decreases with rising temperature. Temperature mainly affects the rate of nucleation due to the increased dissolution of silicate/gallosilicate species and to the consequently enhanced supersaturation of the synthesis gel. This is in agreement with general expectations of the temperature dependence of the nucleation and the crystallization process (Figure 12).108 Figure 12 Arrhenius plots for (1) nucleation and (2) crystallization of [Ga]-ZSM-5 (Si/Ga = 50). Apparent activation energies for nucleation and crystallization amount to 42.5 and 20.4 kJ/mol, respectively. (Reprinted with permission from ref 108. Copyright 1992 Akademie Verlag GmbH.) Values of the activation energies of nucleation En = 155.7 kJ/mol and of crystallization Ec = 94.3 kJ/mol are obtained from the Arrhenius plots of ln(1/θ), ln(K) vs 1/T. θ represents the induction period and K is the point of the crystallization curve, when 50% of crystallization is completed. Derived energies (Table 3) are substantially higher than those of [Al]-ZSM-5 and [Fe]-ZSM-5 crystallized under similar conditions.115 Table 3. Activation Energies of Crystallization (Ec) and Nucleation (En) of Al-, Ga-, and Fe-Substituted Zeolite ZSM-5115 Ec(kJ/mol) En(kJ/mol) [Al]-ZSM-5 78.6 118.0 [Ga]-ZSM-5 94.3 155.7 [Fe]-ZSM-5 92.5 145.0 Increasing radii of the substituting atoms give rise to growing activation energies, indicating that crystallization is rendered more difficult in the order Al > Fe > Ga. It is considered that the nucleation rate depends on the nature of the metal cations and on their ability to condense with silicate species. This finding may evidence the disruptive nature of metal incorporation into the silicate framework. After 5 h of crystallization, Si/Ga = 39 is reached. A further increase of crystallization time (to ca. 28 h) results in a slight increase of the gallium content in the solid only (Si/Ga ratio = 37). The Ga/Na ratio in the solid changes distinctly after the onset of crystal growth, indicating a progressive incorporation of the template during the formation of the gallosilicates. Triethylbutylammonium (TEBA) ions compete with sodium ions for the compensation of the negative framework charge created by the incorporated Ga. This suggests that the same liquid-phase transportation mechanism may be operative during formation of [Ga]-ZSM-5 crystals as has been reported for [Al]-ZSM-5. 118 An increase of the relative nucleation time of MFI-type zeolites after addition of different heteroatoms (Me3+) was also reported.116 Crystallization was carried out in the temperature range from 150 to 200 C using hexamethylendiamine as template. Typically, the Si/Me gel ratios varied from 10 to 35. Besides gallium, B, Al, In, Fe, Ge, Sn, Ti, Zr, V, Cr, Mo, W, and Mn were included for comparison. The authors considered the influence of the different elements on the rates of the steps gel dissolution, nucleation, and the crystal growth rate using a kinetic model of crystallization.
In this system, nucleation rate decreases in the order B > Al > Ga > Fe. The rate of crystal growth is related to the extent of gel dissolution. According to the liquid-phase transportation mechanism of the formation of zeolites, the dissolution of the solid gel phase is important for the growth of zeolite crystals. In contrast, the nucleation depends mainly on the nature of the metal species involved in the nucleation reaction. Metal species may also influence the polymeric state of silicates. This reaction is described by the condensation of the general type A relatively fast crystallization of [Ga]-ZSM-5 has been reported by Gianetto et al. 119 They compared the rates of crystallization for [Al]-ZSM-5 and [Ga]-ZSM-5 (Si/Al and Si/Ga ratios amounting to 58 and 60, respectively) at 170 C from sodium aluminosilicate/gallosilicate gels containing tetrapropylammonium bromide. The pH value of nearly 9 adjusted by the addition of sulfuric acid guaranteed optimal condensation of Al, Ga, and Si oligomers and enhanced nucleation and growth of zeolite crystals. [Ga]-ZSM-5 crystallized more rapidly than [Al]-ZSM-5 and exhibited a higher XRD crystallinity. Incorporation of both elements into tetrahedral framework positions is proven by the shift of IR framework vibration bands to lower wavenumbers. The antisymmetric vibration band is shifted from 1112 (silicalite-1) to 1100 cm-1 for [Al]-ZSM-5 and to ca. 1090 cm-1 for [Ga]-ZSM-5 (Figure 13). Tetrahedral coordination of Ga is also revealed by 71Ga MAS NMR spectroscopy. The differences in the crystallization are discussed in terms of a slightly different solution chemistry of aluminate and gallate ions. Free gallate ions are assumed to be more stable than aluminate ions. 120 Aluminate ions also tend to form dimeric, trimeric, and polymeric species in solutions, whereas gallate ions are more stable in the monomeric state. Differences in behavior are explained by the polarizing effect of d10 electrons of Ga3+ which is supposed to enhance the tendency toward tetrahedral coordination of Ga, although the size of Ga is larger than that of aluminum. 121 Recent studies on the chemistry of pure aluminate solutions, however, have shown that aluminate forms polymeric anions in concentrated solutions only.
Figure 13 IR lattice vibration spectra of [Ga]-ZSM-5 at various synthesis times. (Reprinted with permission from ref 108. Copyright 1992 Akademie Verlag GmbH.) Formation of more stable AlTPA complexes has also been discussed to explain the different crystallization behavior. 122 Such complexes should only react slowly with silicate species. In contrast, gallium forms very stable and reactive monomeric gallate anions under basic conditions. 123 Other studies suggest the partial oligomerization of Ga3+ ions16 forming a [GaO4Ga12(OH)24(H2O)12]7+ polyoxo cation upon hydrolysis in alkaline solutions. 124 So far, NMR investigations of TPAaluminosilicate solutions, however, do not support this idea.94 Unfortunately, results cannot be compared directly because compositions and temperatures of solutions studied by NMR were substantially different from those used for zeolite synthesis. To optimize synthesis conditions in the presence of tetrapropylammonium bromide as a template, Kosslick et al. 125,126 studied the influence of the Si/Ga ratio, alkalinity of the starting gel, and synthesis temperature on crystallinity, synthesis yield, and Ga distribution in Ga-ZSM-5. A strong influence of the OH- concentration on the synthesis efficiency is found and discussed in terms of an increased depolymerization of the precipitated gel yielding low condensed reactive silica species. Hydroxide concentrations that are too high as well as temperatures >170 C lead to an opposite effect. Monomeric silicic acid is formed, which is not suitable for zeolite crystallization. Additionally, the hydroxide concentration affects the nature of the reaction product with respect to the distribution of gallium in the ZSM-5 framework. The DTA peak of template decomposition (Figure 14), which is clearly related to the Si/Ga framework ratio, often has to be split into several maxima indicating a heterogeneous distribution of Ga atoms in the crystals or a simultaneous occurrence of crystals with different Si/Ga framework ratios within one synthesis product.125 It was concluded that the rates of depolymerization and condensation of silica species and the rate of Ga incorporation into silicate species should be of the same order of magnitude at optimum crystallization conditions (Figure 15).
Figure 14 DTA curves of as-synthesized [Ga]-ZSM-5 crystallized from gels with different alkalinity. (Reprinted with permission from ref 125. Copyright 1991 Akademie Verlag GmbH.) Figure 15 Scheme of [Ga]-ZSM-5 crystallization. (Reprinted with permission from ref 125. Copyright 1991 Akademie Verlag GmbH.) In summary, many factors have to be taken into account and single results should be considered with caution if the influence of gallium framework substitution on the course of crystallization of zeolites is to be described generally.
3. Stability of Gallium in Tetrahedral Framework Positions
Usually calcination is the last step in zeolite synthesis, after the organic template of the as-synthesized product has been decomposed thermally and NH4+ ions introduced by the ion exchange have been destroyed, provided that the H+ form of the zeolite is the desired product. Removal of the template and deammoniation, however, may lead to undesired degalliation. This is demonstrated by Choudhary et al. 127 for a series of [Ga]-ZSM-5 samples. Calcination causes degalliation, the extent of which depends on the Si/Ga ratio of the samples. Two calcination procedures in static air were applied, one at 550 C for 15 h to remove the occluded organic template from the synthesized material and a second one at 600 C for 4 h to transform the gallosilicates into their H+ forms after ion exchange with a NH4NO3 solution. Si/Ga ratios of the as-synthesized form and of the final H+ form were determined by chemical analysis. The degalliation was as high as 35.2% at a Si/Ga ratio of 31.3 in the as-synthesized product but amounted to 2.7% only at a Si/Ga ratio of 123.3. On the latter sample, the ratio of nonframework Ga to framework Ga is 1 order of magnitude lower (Table 4).
Table 4. Degalliation of [Ga]-ZSM-5 Gallosilicates Due to Calcination (600 C, 4 h)127 Si/Garatioa 31.3 48.9 65.1 123.3 degalliation(%) 35.2 18.2 7.2 2.7 NF-Ga/F-Gab 0.4 0.22 0.08 0.03 aAs-synthesized.bRatio of nonframework (NF) to framework (F) gallium in the H-form.
It is obvious that the appreciable high degree of degalliation depends on the Si/Ga ratio of the as-synthesized material: At higher Si/Ga ratios, degalliation is less severe. As the amount of water released by the as-synthesized material during hydrothermal treatment up to 550 C is high, calcination under static conditions proceeds in a moist atmosphere, whichas is known from the so-called steaming of zeolitesfavors the removal of the trivalent elements from the framework.
As shown in Table 5, the hydrothermal treatment (48 mol of steam) of [Ga]-ZSM-5 samples at temperatures above 400 C decreases the crystallinity, degalliates the framework, and diminishes the concentration of strong acid sites. Steaming was carried out by passing a H2O(g)/N2 mixture with H2O concentrations of 1380 mol % and a GHSV of about 5000 h-1 over the zeolite in a quartz reactor for 4 h at 6731073 K. The loss of crystallinity is less severe at lower steam contents. The steam content has less effect on the crystallinity than the temperature. It is reported that the presence of 18, 48, or 80 mol % H2O has only minor effects on the crystallinity of [Ga]-ZSM-5 samples during steaming at 600 C.127 Table 5. Comparison of [Ga]-MFI and [Al]-MFI Zeolites Hydrothermally Treated (HTT) with 48 mol % of Steam at Different Temperatures127 crystallinity(%) Si/(GaorAl)framework strongacidity(mmol/g)a HTT-temp(C) [Ga]-MFI [Al]-MFI [Ga]-MFI [Al]-MFI [Ga]-MFI [Al]-MFI 400 97 100 44 37 0.24 0.26 600 83 99 64 51 0.09 0.20 800 62 92 224 66 0.04 0.14 aDetermined in terms of pyridine chemisorbed at 400 C.
Degalliation caused by hydrothermal treatments has been confirmed by other authors. 128,129 The hydrothermal treatment of a [Ga]-ZSM-5 sample (Si/Ga = 45) at 923 K causes a more severe degalliation than dry calcination. 71Ga MAS NMR spectra show (Figure 16) that removal of framework gallium leads to the appearance of adequate amounts of octahedrally coordinated nonframework gallium. Degalliation continues over a period of steam treatment up to 24 h.
Figure 16 71Ga MAS NMR spectra of NH4[Ga]-ZSM-5 (Si/Ga = 45) after postsynthesis steaming at 650 C for various times (recorded after impregnation of samples with acetylacetone at room temperature). (Reprinted with permission from ref 128. Copyright 1989 The Royal Society of Chemistry.) After water vapor equilibration of the samples at room temperature, no signal at δ = 0 ppm of octahedrally coordinated gallium could be observed. Only after equilibration with acetyl acetonate (acac), which is known to improve the detection of octahedrally coordinated species for aluminosilicate zeolites in certain cases, 130 the signal at 0 ppm became visible.
An IR vibration band at 1461 cm-1 appears after adsorption of pyridine over hydrothermally treated [Ga]-ZSM-5 gallosilicates. This band is assigned to Lewis acid sites 131 located on nonframework gallium species. Khodakov et al. 132 observed the release of gallium from the framework of gallosilicates with MFI structure during catalyst regeneration. The authors could distinguish between two kinds of nonframework gallium species. Only one of them was partly located on the external crystal surface and found to be catalytically active for 125 h in the aromatization of propane performed under autogenous pressure at 428 K.
In summary, the hydrothermal stability of the gallosilicate MFI structure is lower than that of the aluminosilicate. Although experimental evidence is still missing, this conclusion can be assumed to be valid for other types of zeolitic gallosilicates too.
B. Gallium Framework Substitution by Postsynthesis Treatments1. Galliation
The postsynthesis replacement of tetrahedrally coordinated framework constituents by heteroatoms is a suitable method to introduce heteroatoms into tetrahedrally coordinated framework positions in cases if direct synthesis of the material fails or synthesis is difficult to achieve.
Postsynthetic galliation is usually attained by zeolite treatment with alkaline gallate solutions. The siliceous end members of zeolite structures such as silicalite-1 (structure type MFI) or silicalite-2 (structure type MEL) exclusively offer Si4+ for substitution. Thomas and Liu 133 could show that silicalite-2 undergoes facile substitution of framework Si4+ by Ga3+ when exposed to aqueous solutions of NaGaO2. 134 A typical preparation procedure of galliated silicalite-2 is described as follows: 1 g of silicalite-2 previously calcined at 550 C (to remove residual organic molecules inside its channels) is added to 30 mL of a solution of NaGaO2 (0.0278 mol/L of Ga2O3 and 0.1 mol/L of NaOH) under constant stirring for 10 min. The mixture is placed in a plastic bottle, sealed, and kept in an oven at ca. 100 C for 24 h. The product is filtered, washed with distilled water, and dried at 100 C.
Galliation of H-ZSM-5 (Si/Al ratio = 639), NaZSM-5 (Si/Al ratio = 685), and NaZSM-11 (Si/Al ratio = 1066) was reported by Endoh et al. 135 The zeolites were treated with an aqueous solution of Ga2O3/NaOH at 100 C for 24 h. It turned out that H-ZSM-5 and Na-ZSM-11 were not galliated at all whereas Na-ZSM-5 was galliated though to a low extent only, as shown by IR framework spectra. Due to the high Si/Al ratios, the samples can practically be viewed as silicalite structures with aluminum being present in traces only.
Galliation seems to depend on the degree of crystallinity because the mechanism of gallium incorporation is believed to require crystal defects. Differences in the degree of galliation reported in the literature can be caused by the defect site concentration of the zeolite. A correlation is found between the degree of isomorphous substitution and the reactivity of the material for the isotopic exchange of oxygen. About six framework oxygen atoms have to be activated for the insertion of one Ga atom, which suggests that Ga occupies a corner of the four-membered oxygen ring.
Galliation of zeolite beta (Si/Al = 10) was performed in the liquid phase. 136 It was found that gallium species are inserted into vacancies created by thermal treatment of the zeolite or by alkaline leaching. Preferentially, galliation starts at the external surface of the zeolite crystals and then migrates into their interior. Aluminum and gallium species present in the liquid phase behave similarly during the process. In the case of aluminosilicates, gallium can substitute either for Si4+ or Al3+. A complete substitution of all framework Al3+ through these secondary synthesis, however, has not been achieved. Thus, the transformation of aluminum-containing zeolite structures into the pure gallium analogues is hardly attainable by postsynthesis methods.
Isomorphous substitution of Al3+ by Ga3+ in the framework of wide pore zeolites Y, ZSM-20, USY, and beta is described by Karma et al. 137 through reaction with aqueous gallium fluoride solutions. Characterization by XRD, solid-state NMR, FTIR, SIMS, and sorption studies demonstrates that gallium can be incorporated into the framework, except in the case of USY where gallium substituted only nonframework aluminum. Results from the catalytic gas-phase conversion of n-hexane showed that reaction rates increased with increased amounts of framework gallium.
Another example is given by Dwyer et al. 138,139 Ammonium-exchanged zeolite Y (Si/Al = 2.5) was dried at 170180 C and treated with a solution of gallium nitrate and ammonium fluoride for 34 h. Subsequently, the products were filtered off and heated to 8085 C for 2 h with ammonium sulfate solution (1.5 mol/L) using a ratio of solid to solution of 1:10. This treatment was repeated to remove the fluoride. The degree of framework substitution of Al3+ by Ga3+ was controlled by varying the concentration of gallium fluoride used. The incorporation of Ga3+ into framework tetrahedral sites was confirmed by XRD, FTIR, and solid-state NMR.
Figure 17 shows how the unit cell parameters of (cubic) faujasite change depending on the degree of Al3+ replacement by Ga3+. For comparison, results on the substitution of Al3+ by Si4+ achieved by an analogous treatment with SiF4 are included. The latter procedure enhanced the Si/Al framework ratio. Therefore, it can be viewed as a dealumination process because the overall aluminum concentration diminishes. As observed for other zeolites, the unit cell size decreases and the frequency of the symmetric IR framework TO stretching band shifts to higher values with dealumination. The increase of the unit cell size in the case of Al3+ substitution by Ga3+ can be attributed to the larger size of Ga3+ (in comparison to Si4+ and Al3+) and reflects the increase of the TO bond length leading to a reduced vibration frequency.
Figure 17 Change of the unit cell size (left) and of the symmetric TOT framework vibration frequency (right) of zeolite Y with Ga substituted by postsynthesis galliation. (Reprinted with permission from ref 139. Copyright 1991 Elsevier Science.) As mentioned before, the incorporation of heteroatoms into zeolitic frameworks by postsynthesis treatment probably occurs at framework vacancies or defect sites. The complex mechanism of galliation by postsynthesis treatment in alkaline solution, however, is not yet fully understood. The insertion of gallium into the framework is influenced by the amount of alkaline solution used. If small amounts of the zeolite are contacted with large volumes of solution, a dissolution of the zeolite proceeds as known for silica and silicates. For silica, an equilibrium between the solid (s) SiO2 and the monosilicic acid in the liquid phase (l) exists: The solubility of quartz amounts to about 1070 ppm at 25 C.78 Dissolved zeolite species (at equilibrium concentrations) might react with Ga(OH)4-. Formed gallosilicates can react with zeolite crystals or grow into new crystals. This way, gallium is re-incorporated. In alkaline solution, galliation may proceed via a dissolutioncondensation mechanism (recrystallization) simultaneously with a direct attachment of Ga(OH)4- to framework defect sites.
Besides galliation in the liquid phase, an adequate gas-phase procedure is feasible. Bayense et al. 140 used trimethylgallium as modifying agent, which decomposes over dealuminated H-ZSM-5 and HY zeolites in hydrogen or nitrogen atmosphere. In the presence of hydrogen, decomposition of trimethylgallium occurs at lower temperatures (approximately 400 C) than in the presence of nitrogen. Methane was the main decomposition product. In the presence of surface silanol groups, gallosilane structures may be formed: An equivalent reaction is considered to occur between trimethylgallium and Brnsted acid sites: Dealumination of zeolites prior to trimethylgallium treatment was performed either by washing with HCl solution or by a two-step procedure comprising a treatment with SiCl4 vapor for 2 h at 450 C followed by an acid treatment as described before. It is assumed that defect sites (silanol nests) are created this way due to the removal of framework aluminum. These sites can accept gallium during the galliation procedure under renewed stabilization of the framework. Trimethylgallium treatment of the dealuminated zeolites was carried out by saturating a helium stream with the modifying agent at 0 C and passing this stream over the zeolite bed in a microreactor. Gallium loading of the samples was controlled by varying the time of the trimethylgallium treatment.
Dealumination of the parent H-ZSM-5 and NaHY zeolites enhanced the original Si/Al ratios from 20 and 2.15 to more than 200 and 6.2, respectively. The authors considered the existence of silanol nests as a necessary prerequisite for the subsequent incorporation of gallium according to the following equation:140 Side reactions of trimethylgallium with isolated silanol groups or Brnsted acid sites result in the formation of (attached) nonframework gallium species. The incorporation of gallium into the framework could be verified by IR lattice vibration spectra and by 71Ga MAS NMR spectroscopy.
2. Recrystallization
The temporal course of crystallization of MFI (ZSM-5)-type zeolites was studied by various authors.108,114,141 It was shown by Kosslick et al.141 that a prolongation of the synthesis time initiates a recrystallization process of the gallosilicate accompanied by further incorporation of gallium into framework positions (Figures 18 and 19). The process is supposed to proceed via partial dissolution of smaller crystallites in favor of the growth of larger ones. Gallium incorporation into the zeolite structure during growth introduces framework disorder. In the progress of crystallization, this framework disorder is successively reduced due to Ostwald redissolution (aging).37 The critical size of the crystals to initiate dissolution or growth depends on the supersaturation of the synthesis gel and, in general, increases with decreasing supersaturation, e.g., at longer crystallization times (Figure 20). The driving force is the minimization of the free energy of the crystals with growing crystal size. 142 Hysteresis is observed37 in the adsorption isotherms of n-hexane for gallosilicate ZSM-5 with Si/Ga ratios higher than 25. This deviation from the isotherm type I points to the existence of mesopores and hence implies changes of the zeolitic morphology.
Figure 18 Genesis of [Ga]-ZSM-5 according to XRD and IR analysis (left) and percentage of solid material in the gel (right). (Reprinted with permission from ref 141. Copyright 1991 Elsevier Science.) Figure 19 Influence of the crystallization time on the total Ga content (×) according to chemical analysis and on the Ga framework content (·) estimated from TPDA. Ga content is expressed as atoms per unit cell. (---) Ga content of the starting gel. (Reprinted with permission from ref 141. Copyright 1991 Elsevier Science.) Figure 20 Crystal growth of [Ga]-ZSM-5 (Si/Ga = 50) during the Ostwald redissolution process. SEM pictures after synthesis times of (a) 10, (b) 24, and (c) 48 h. (Reprinted with permission from ref 37. Copyright 1993 The Royal Society of Chemistry.)
C. Modification of Zeolites by Gallium on Nonframework Positions1. Impregnation
Joly et al. 143 applied wet or incipient wetness impregnation of MFI (ZSM-5) samples of various Si/Al ratios using a Ga nitrate solution as the gallium source. Wet impregnation means dosing of solution in excess. Incipient wetness impregnation uses amounts of solution which can be completely absorbed by the pore volume of the zeolite.
It was observed that the pH value of the solution during impregnation influences the gallium dispersion. Nevertheless, the gallium phase being introduced by wet or incipient wetness impregnation is found to be closely restricted to the outer surface of the zeolite crystals as thin platelets with average sizes in the range of 5400 μm. Incipient wetness impregnation resulted in smaller platelets of the gallium phase. Only small amounts of gallium are found inside the zeolite crystals.
2. Ion Exchange
The ability of hydrated Ga3+ cations to penetrate into the pore system of medium-pore zeolites such as ZSM-5 is questionable. According to various authors, gallium cations are too large to gain access to the exchangeable protons of Brnsted sites inside the zeolite pores. Yakerson et al. 144 prepared Ga-modified H-ZSM-5 zeolites by ion exchange and additional impregnation with the mother solution. Large aggregates of Ga2O3 were mostly located on the outer crystal surfaces (SEM). Instead, it was shown that gallium cations can be transferred to ion-exchange positions of a zeolite by a solid-state ion exchange. The basic experimental procedure for solid-state ion exchange of zeolites is rather simple and has been repeatedly reviewed by Karge. 145,146 An intimate mixture of the zeolite powder and the modifying compound, e.g., halides or oxides of the element to be exchanged, is heated under vacuum or in a stream of inert gas to remove volatile products such as HCl, H2O, and NH3. The ion exchange can be carried out under completely water-free conditions. The mixture of the powders can be performed by grinding in a mortar, ball-milling, or suspension in an inert solvent (e.g., n-heptane) followed by evaporation. The latter preparation route was applied by Carli et al. 147 in order to introduce Ga into H-ZSM- 5. Dried Ga2O3 (15 wt %) and H-ZSM-5 (85 wt %) were dispersed in distilled n-hexane, stirred under ultrasonic wave submission, and dried after evaporation of the solvent.
Reductive solid-state ion-exchange (RSSIE) procedure follows the same route described above but includes a final reductive treatment in a flow of hydrogen. 148 Processes occurring in a mixed Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5 sample after treatment with flowing hydrogen were studied thoroughly by Kanazirev et al. 149 The reduction was performed in a microbalance with 80 kPa of hydrogen in argon following a temperature-programmed mode (heating rate 10 deg/min) up to 800 C under normal pressure. Hydrogen consumption starts at ca. 450 C. TEM coupled with EDAX microanalysis as well as with XPS was applied to characterize the mechanical mixture of gallium oxide and zeolite H-ZSM-5 before and after reductive treatment. The results give rise to the view that separate gallium oxide microcrystals detected by TEM before reduction had almost completely disappeared after reduction. Results of EDAX analysis are rationalized assuming that the gallium species are transferred into the zeolite. Neither foreign gallium phases at zeolite crystallites nor gallium enrichment on the zeolite particle surface were observed (Table 6).
Table 6. EDAX Microanalysis of Selected Modified ZSM-5 Zeolite Particles Loaded with 5 wt % of Gallium after Reductive Solid-State Ion Exchange (RSSIE)149 composition(wt%) beforereduction afterreductivetreatment particleno.1 particleno.2 particleno.3 particleno.4 particleno.5 Al2O3 4.238 4.010 4.571 4.838 4.542 SiO2 95.762 95.990 90.944 90.042 90.944 Ga2O3 0.000 0.000 4.485 3.12 3.598 Hydrogen reduction causes a spreading of gallium over the zeolite surface. This is concluded from the increase of the intensity of the Ga(3d) peak of XPS spectra by a factor of about 10 following reduction. Removal of 1520 monolayers of the sample surface by Ar+ sputtering changes the Ga(3d) peak intensity only marginally, thus confirming a transfer of gallium into the zeolite interior. A lowering of the oxidation state is concluded from the shift of the Ga(3d) peak to lower binding energies after reduction (Figure 21).
Figure 21 XPS spectra of ZSM-5 modified with gallium by reductive solid-state ion exchange: (a) before and (b) after reduction in flowing H2 (80 kPa of H2 in a total flow of 50 mL/min). (Reprinted with permission from ref 149. Copyright 1991 Elsevier Science.) Reductive solid-state ion exchange (with H2) extends the scope of the classic solid-state ion exchange. The state of oxidation of the exchanged gallium is reduced from 3+ to 1+. This way, negative charges of the framework can be balanced by cations of a usually higher valence in a 1:1 ratio. Thus, a higher metal density can be achieved: Z- symbolizing zeolite framework sites. This method can also be applied to incorporate In by using In2O3.
According to the thermodynamic ΔG values for the reduction of Me2O3 to Me2O, the reductive depletion of the In2O3 phase is facilitated since the change of the standard free energy of the reduction of the indium oxide is less positive. Other zeolite types can be modified as well (Y, mordenite, offretite). 150 Currently, RSSIE was also applied to prepare In- and Ga-modified SAPO materials (SAPO-5, SAPO-34, SAPO-37). 151
3. Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)
The dried and calcined zeolite is mixed with GaCl3 in a glovebox, and the mixture is subsequently heated temperature-programmed up to 773 K in a stepwise manner at low heating rates. The reaction of GaCl3 with H2O and protons results in the formation of the gallyl ion GaO+ as the primary species Under severe reduction conditions, the gallyl ion is reduced to Ga+. This way, Kwak and Sachtler 152 prepared H-ZSM-5 (Si/Al = 20.5) zeolites loaded with various amounts of gallium. TPR shows the formation of GaO+ ions and Ga2O3 particles. The authors concluded that the CVD technique acts as a true ion exchange replacing protons by GaO+ ions. Brnsted acidity is markedly lowered by introducing Ga via CVD. A quantitative evaluation discussed by the authors does not seem to be justified on the basis of the presented NH3 TPD profiles, which consist of at least three strongly overlapping peaks.
In a preceding work, the same process was shown to operate with a Na,H-ZSM-5 sample (Si/Al = 16, Na content 0.60%). 153 The authors succeeded in distinguishing between isolated Ga3+, GaO+, and Ga2O3 species by using CO-TPR techniques combined with reoxidation experiments. A distribution of 0:7:3 was estimated for a sample containing 1.32 wt % of gallium.
Recently, the acidity of partially dealuminated mordenite was modified by isomorphous substitution of trivalent (Ga) atoms in framework sites using the atom planting method. 48,154 After treatment with GaCl3 vapor at 600 C, the IR band owing to acidic bridging SiOHGa groups at 3620 cm-1 appears in the OH vibration spectrum (Figure 22). In the 71Ga MAS NMR spectrum, the characteristic peak of tetrahedrally coordinated Ga is found at 159 ppm.
Figure 22 IR spectra (OH region) of (Al,Ga) mordenite with various Si/Al ratios () prepared by atom planting of dealuminated [Al]-mordenite (···) with GaCl3 vapor at 600 C: (a) Si/Al = 171, (b) Si/Al = 151, (c) Si/Al = 195, (d) Si/Al = 220. Inset shows spectrum d with two resolved Brnsted OH vibration bands. (Reprinted with permission from ref 154. Copyright 1997 Elsevier Science.)
IV. Physicochemical Characterization
A great variety of characterization techniques is applicable for ascertaining the substitution of elements into the zeolite framework. Most frequently, infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, thermoanalytical methods, and temperature-programmed characterization techniques as well as the determination of ion-exchange capacities have been applied. X-ray diffraction gives indirect evidence according to detectable modifications of unit cell volumes.
The chemical composition is routinely determined by optical emission spectroscopy with ion-coupled plasma (OESICP). The method utilizes an inductively coupled argon plasma for atomization and excitation of the dissolved probe material. The plasma, generated through a high-frequency field with temperatures of about 8000 K, emits a spectrum of the characteristic lines of the elements present. For quantitative determination, a calibration based on standards is necessary. Naturally, OESICP cannot differentiate between framework and nonframework species. Additional methods, briefly outlined below, have to be applied for discrimination.
A. Gallium in Framework Positions1. X-ray Diffraction
XRD allows one to identify crystalline material by its diffraction pattern. Substitution of framework constituents leads to a modification of bond lengths and angles and hence to an alteration of the unit cell volume. Its size, however, depends on the concentration of the element to be replaced in the framework and also on the degree of substitution achieved. The change in the unit cell volume of a silica polymorph upon isomorphous substitution of Si by various elements was already discussed on the basis of Pauling's minimum radii concept.XRD analysis, however, fails in determining bond length variations and coordination numbers if the concentration of the substituting element in the parent framework is low. Further complications of the structural analysis arise if substituting atoms are distributed over crystallographically different tetrahedral T sites. With zeolites of ordered distribution of Si and Ga over available T sites, like with the ABW structure type, coordination as well as bond lengths and angles around the Ga framework atoms can be determined precisely by XRD.The structures of Ga-substituted zeolites and related materials are presented in section V.
2. Infrared Spectroscopy
Characteristically, IR vibration bands in both the hydroxyl region (wavenumbers beyond 3000 cm-1) and the framework region (wavenumbers below 1500 cm-1) are sensitive to the composition of the framework. Hence, the intensity of the vibrations as well as the wavenumbers are a practical tool for checking the incorporation of gallium in framework positions. Table 7 summarizes results of IR investigations performed on gallosilicate structures.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis, what mechanisms (such as Mars van Krevelen and H-abstraction) are involved in these processes, and how are these principles applied in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, using the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride as a specific example?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 