<quotes>

[1] "The HoriutiPolanyi mechanism consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, CH cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin, as is shown in Scheme 2ag."
[2] "Notably, both CH cleavage steps (229, 263, 287-289) and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[3] "Several studies have been performed on Pt and PtSn catalysts to gain a detailed understanding of the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[4] "DFT calculations performed on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step."
[5] "On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the PtSn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, CH cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin. The ongoing debate regarding whether the dissociative adsorption process or the β-H extraction is the rate-controlling step in this reaction is still unresolved. Both steps have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction. DFT calculations on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step. However, on Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the PtSn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored. This uncertainty impacts our understanding of the PDH process by leaving open the question of which step is the true rate-determining step, which is crucial for the development of more efficient catalysts and reaction conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. Horiuti-Polanyi机制对于丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应包含四个主要步骤：石蜡的解离吸附，第二个氢原子的CH裂解，氢分子的形成，以及随后氢和烯烃的脱附。关于脱氢反应中解离吸附过程还是β-H提取是速率控制步骤的持续争论仍未解决。这两个步骤都被认为是脱氢反应的速率限制步骤。在PDH反应中，对Pt，Pt3Sn和Pt2Sn (111)表面的DFT计算揭示了烷烃的解离吸附是速率限制步骤。然而，在Pt (111)上，脱氢可能通过1-或2-丙基中间体进行，而在PtSn合金上，1-丙基中间体更受青睐。这种不确定性影响了我们对PDH过程的理解，因为它留下了哪个步骤是真正的速率决定步骤的问题，这对于开发更有效的催化剂和反应条件至关重要。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
