<quotes>

[1] "The HoriutiPolanyi mechanism consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, CH cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin, as is shown in Scheme 2ag."
[2] "Notably, both CH cleavage steps (229, 263, 287-289) and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[3] "Several studies have been performed on Pt and PtSn catalysts to gain a detailed understanding of the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[4] "DFT calculations performed on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step."
[5] "On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the PtSn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored."
[6] "The positive effect of Sn on catalytic activity is explained by the facile desorption of propylene, which hinders further dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, CH cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin. Both the CH cleavage steps and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction. DFT calculations on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step. On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the PtSn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored. The positive effect of Sn on catalytic activity is explained by the facile desorption of propylene, which hinders further dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene. The ongoing debate regarding whether the dissociative adsorption process or the β-H extraction is the rate-controlling step in this reaction impacts our understanding of the PDH process because it affects the interpretation of experimental results and the development of more efficient catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢（PDH）的Horiuti-Polanyi机制主要包括四个步骤：石蜡的解离吸附，第二个氢原子的CH裂解，氢分子的形成，以及随后氢和烯烃的解吸。石蜡的解离吸附和CH裂解步骤都被认为是脱氢反应的速率控制步骤。在PDH反应中，对Pt，Pt3Sn和Pt2Sn（111）表面的DFT计算表明，烷烃的解离吸附是速率控制步骤。在Pt（111）上，脱氢可能通过1-或2-丙基中间体进行，而在PtSn合金上，1-丙基中间体更受青睐。Sn对催化活性的正面影响可以通过丙烯的容易解吸来解释，这阻碍了吸附丙烯的进一步脱氢。关于解离吸附过程或β-H提取是否是该反应的速率控制步骤的持续争论影响了我们对PDH过程的理解，因为它影响了实验结果的解释和更有效催化剂的开发。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
