<quotes>
[1] "Ethylene is the largest-volume petrochemical produced worldwide. It is used to produce intermediate chemicals of high importance in industry such as ethyl benzene, ethylene oxide, and ethylene dichloride, which were listed, along with ethylene, in the top 30 highest volume chemicals in the United States in 2000."
[2] "The major chemicals derived from ethylene and their derivatives are shown in Figure 1. Ethylene is mainly used by the plastics industry. In 2010, approximately 61% of the total consumption of ethylene was for production of polyethylene in the Western European countries (Figure 2)."
[3] "Propylene is a versatile petrochemical which has even more derivatives than ethylene. However, the tremendous growth of polypropylene consumption over the past 15 years has been the main driver of the large increase of the demand of propylene."
[4] "The constant growth of demand for lower olefins has caused the global production capacity to double over the past 15 years. During 2008 and 2009, ethylene demand decreased due to the slow global economic growth; nevertheless, analysts predict that the demand will grow after 2012."
[5] "It is expected that new steam crackers will provide sufficient ethylene to meet the growing demand. Propylene production will increase as well; however, according to experts the production capacity will be insufficient to cover the demand."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The production of light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, is crucial for the chemical industry. They are used in a wide range of applications, from the production of plastics to intermediates for pharmaceuticals. Key production methods include steam cracking of hydrocarbons, which faces thermodynamic challenges such as temperature and pressure control. Longer alkane chains can be cracked into shorter olefins, which affects the yield and selectivity of the process. Demand for these olefins is expected to continue growing, with analysts predicting that production capacity will need to expand to meet the increasing demand. Ethylene, in particular, is used in the production of polyethylene, which makes up a significant portion of its consumption. Propylene, being more versatile, drives the demand for its production due to the growth in polypropylene consumption.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，对于化学工业至关重要。它们在各种应用中使用，从塑料生产到制药中间体。主要的生产方法包括通过将烃类裂解来生产，这面临诸如温度和压力控制等热力学挑战。更长的烷烃链可以被裂解成较短的烯烃，这影响了过程的产率和选择性。预计对这些烯烃的需求将继续增长，分析师预测生产容量需要扩大以满足不断增长的需求。尤其是乙烯，在其消费中主要用于聚乙烯的生产，占了相当大的比例。由于聚丙烯消费的增长，丙烯因其更多的灵活性驱动了其生产需求。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
