I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Volcano Relation for the Deacon Process over Transition-Metal Oxides Graphical Abstract Lava applets: DFT calculations are used to establish a volcano relation for the Deacon Process over rutile transition-metal oxides. It is found that RuO2 catalysts are close to the top of the volcano curve, but that there is still room for improvements in the catalytic activity. Importantly, the volcano curve can be based on just one descriptor, the dissociative oxygen chemisorption, which potentially allows for the fast computational screening for new catalysts.
Abstract We establish an activity relation for the heterogeneous catalytic oxidation of HCl (the Deacon Process) over rutile transition-metal oxide catalysts by combining density functional theory calculations (DFT) with microkinetic modeling. Linear energy relations for the elementary reaction steps are obtained from the DFT calculations and used to establish a one-dimensional descriptor for the catalytic activity. The descriptor employed here is the dissociative chemisorption energy of oxygen. It is found that the commonly employed RuO2 catalyst is close to optimal, but that there could still be room for improvements. The analysis suggests that oxide surfaces which offer slightly weaker bonding of oxygen should exhibit a superior activity to that of RuO2.
Introduction Dichlorine is one of the most important compounds for the chemical industry with a worldwide annual production of approximately 50 Mtonnes. It is usually produced from either hydrochloric acid or chloride salts. Electrochemical reduction of either HCl or chloride salts is highly energy demanding and there has thus been growing interest in the heterogeneously catalyzed oxidation of HCl with oxygen using the so-called Deacon process:[1] ((1)) The Deacon process has been known for about 130 years, but industrial production through this route was only established recently by Sumitomo Chemicals using a RuO2 catalyst supported on TiO2.2 Even though the production of chlorine is extremely important to the chemical industry, there have only been few attempts to describe this process theoretically.35 Recently, a density functional theory (DFT) study showed that the most energy-demanding step in this reaction is likely to be the recombination of adsorbed chlorine to form Cl2. All other steps in the reaction pathway were calculated to have significantly lower barriers.3 In that study, however, it was assumed that the catalytically active surface was RuO2(110). This assumption was challenged by combined experimental and theoretical studies, which indicated that the active catalyst should have chlorine atoms sitting in the bridge positions on the (110) surface of RuO2.4,5 Herein, we use DFT calculations to address the underlying principles of the catalytically active surface. Our calculations support that chlorination of the surface does indeed occur under reaction conditions and we analyze how it influences the performance of the actual catalyst. By comparing the thermodynamics of the reaction on the RuO2(110) surface with those on TiO2(110) and IrO2(110), we find the key parameters determining the activity of the catalytically active surface. By combining BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relations69 and scaling relations1012 with a microkinetic model of the reaction, we furthermore derive a volcano-curve for the activity by which the reaction rate over a given rutile oxide catalyst is described in terms of a single descriptor.
Results and Discussion It has been shown experimentally that the bridging oxygen atoms of the RuO2(110) surface is substituted when the surface is exposed to HCl.5 In Figure1, we present a phase diagram for the bridge sites, which we consider as a part of the static surface that is equilibrated with the reaction mixture. Subsequently, we consider the coverages of the coordinatively unsaturated (cus) sites through the steady state of the microkinetic modeling. According to the calculated phase diagram (Figure1), the bridging oxygen atoms on RuO2(110) will to a large extent be exchanged with chlorine under industrially relevant pressures of oxygen and hydrochloric acid. The situation is different, however, for the two other surfaces considered in this study; neither IrO2(110) nor TiO2(110) will be chlorinated at the bridge positions (see the Supporting Information for details). The pathway over the RuO2(110) surface is thus one-dimensional since the adsorbed chlorine atoms do not interact with the hydrogen atoms of the reactant HCl. For the surfaces considered here, bridging oxygen atoms are always energetically more difficult to remove than oxygen atoms bound to the cus sites. Hence, the catalytic reaction on the (110) surfaces will always take place along the free cus sites.13 The bridging oxygen atoms may bind and release hydrogen, but are unlikely to be exchanged during the reaction.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Stability range of the RuO2 (110) surface for bridge adsorbed 100% O*, 50% O*+50% Cl*, and 100% Cl* as a function of O2 and HCl pressures at 573K.
The free energy diagram of the catalytic cycle for the HCl oxidation is shown in Figure2 for reaction temperatures of 373K and 573K. The reaction energetics is very similar for the two different ruthenium oxide surfaces. The cycle starts with the dissociative adsorption of HCl on the cus site of the oxygen precovered surface, whereby the hydrogen atom binds to the oxygen and the chlorine atom binds directly to a free cus site. This step is thermodynamically downhill for RuO2 and IrO2. As a next step, the dissociative adsorption of molecular oxygen is considered. This reaction step is slightly downhill for RuO2, significantly downhill for IrO2, and strongly uphill for TiO2.14,15 This reaction is accompanied by a barrier of 0.85eV for RuO2xClx16 and 0.11eV for IrO2 (Figure2, right side).
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Left: Gibbs free energy diagram obtained from DFT calculations for the Deacon process on the RuO2xClx,16 RuO2, IrO2, and TiO2 (110) surfaces at 373 and 573K. Right: potential energy diagram for the splitting of molecular O2.
After coadsorption of a second HCl, there are two adsorbed OH groups and two Cl atoms on the surface. At 373K, recombination of two chlorine atoms is endergonic for the RuO2 and IrO2 surfaces and represents the most free energy-demanding step of the catalytic cycle, in agreement with earlier studies.3 In a last step, two adsorbed OH groups react to form a water molecule and leave an oxygen atom on the surface, thus reestablishing the oxygen precovered surface, which was chosen as the starting point of the catalytic cycle.
An increase in reaction temperature decreases the endergonicity of the chlorine recombination explaining the high temperatures that are needed to run the Deacon process over the RuO2 catalyst (Figure2a). The overall Deacon process is mildly exothermic [Equation(1)], and at lower temperatures, equilibrium will thus favor the product. An increase in reaction temperature will make the process less exergonic (the exergonicity was calculated to be 0.46eV at 373K compared to 0.32eV at 573K; Figure2). This will lead to a shift in the equilibrium conversion which reduces the final chlorine yield.
There are two elementary steps which primarily determine the volcano relation for the Deacon process. The first is the splitting of molecular oxygen along two cus sites. Although this step is feasible over RuO2 and IrO2, it becomes very much uphill over TiO2 thus eliminating its activity completely. The second rate-determining step is the recombination of two adsorbed chlorine atoms which form Cl2. If this step becomes too endergonic, chlorine cannot be removed on a reasonable timescale and poisons the surface, hence affecting the activity of the catalyst. This effect can be observed for the IrO2(110) surface in which this step is extremely endergonic.
The different reaction steps in the catalytic cycle are subject to BEP relations69 (linear energy relations between reaction energies and reaction barriers) and scaling relations10,11,12 (linear energy relations between different adsorbates). Figure3 shows the transition state energy for the splitting of the OO bond on the Ru cus sites as a function of the dissociative chemisorption energy of O2 (). For more negative values, the barrier for the oxygen dissociation decreases, and at a positive the barrier increases until it falls on the oxygen recombination line (dashed line in Figure3), creating kinks in the lines for ΔE1, ΔE2, and ΔETS. Similar BEP relations have been observed for the splitting of diatomic molecules on the transition metal surfaces.7 The existence of such a BEP relation allows for the description of the activation energy in terms of .
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Top: calculated transition state energies (ΔETS) as a function of the dissociative chemisorption energy of O2 () on different rutile (110) surfaces. Bottom: calculated energies for the five reactions steps of the Deacon process as a function of . The dashed lines for the O2-dependent reactions correspond to the regime where O2 does not associatively adsorb. All relations are given in eVs. See text for the labeling of the different reaction steps.
Figure3 shows the energies ΔEi of the five elementary reaction steps where * defines a surface site (i.e., Cl* signifies a chlorine atom adsorbed on the surface):
1)O2+2*O2**
2)O2**2O*
3)O*+*+HClOH*+Cl* 4)2Cl*Cl2+2*
5)2OH*O*+*+H2O
are plotted as a function of . It can be seen that all the reactions ΔEi (i=1, 2, 3, 4, 5) can be described in terms of within reasonable accuracy. Assuming scaling relations between and , and taking valency considerations into account, one would expect that Cl* scales with O* with a slope of approximately 0.5 (or 0.5 for chlorine recombination), similar to the OH* versus O* adsorption on the transition metal11 and metal-oxide surfaces.10,12 This is indeed the case for ΔE4, in which the recombination of chlorine is described by a slope of approximately 0.5. Adsorption of the O2 molecule (ΔE1) and its dissociation into two oxygen atoms (ΔE2) scales with a slope of approximately 0.5 versus . For significantly positive values, the adsorption of O2 decreases to zero, so in this regime, ΔE2 is equal to (Figure3, dashed line). For the reactions ΔE3 and ΔE5, slopes of 0.15 and 0.19eV are obtained, respectively.
In order to establish a relationship for the Deacon Process activity, a microkinetic model was developed. This microkinetic model consists of the five elementary reaction steps (15) described above. The two competing rate determining steps of the overall reaction are the dissociation of molecular oxygen and the chlorine recombination. The overall reaction rate Rtot can be written as:((2)) where the rate constant, k2:((3)) and the equilibrium constants:((4)) is determined from the BEP and scaling relations. Zero-point energy corrections are calculated in the normal mode approximation; the entropic contributions, ΔS, to the free energies are obtained from tabulated gas-phase data by assuming negligible entropy of surface species9 and the pressure of oxygen, , is given by the reaction conditions. The coverage of free sites, θ*, and the approach to equilibrium (the backward rate divided by the forward rate) for reaction2, γ2, are obtained from the self-consistent steady-state solution of the microkinetic model, which enables the determination of Rtot as a function of (see the Supporting Information).
Figure4 shows the turnover frequency as a function of for a reaction temperature of 573K and clearly identifies the ruthenium oxide catalysts as being the closest to the optimal, whereas the other investigated catalysts, IrO2 and TiO2, are on the left and right side of the volcano, respectively. At 573K, the ruthenium catalyst with oxygen in the bridge position is on top of the volcano. Substitution of the bridged oxygen by chlorine moves the catalytic performance of the material slightly away from the optimum since the dissociative oxygen chemisorption energy increases on these surfaces. The chlorinated catalysts are, however, still close to the top of the volcano. According to the microkinetic model, the Deacon process is estimated to have reaction rates on the order of 10 to 100s1 at 573K.
Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Volcano-curve (turnover frequency as a function of ) for the Deacon process at 573K. Inset: a) volcano plots at various temperatures; b) turnover frequency as a function of the reaction temperature for RuO2xClx and RuO20.5xCl0.5x11 The black line represents the theoretical maximal TOF of the Deacon process as given through the BEP and scaling relations and the optimal choice of .
The dependence of the Deacon process on the reaction temperature is depicted in Figure4a. To achieve a turnover frequency (TOF) of about 1s1, a reaction temperature of at least about 423K is necessary. The optimal catalyst that runs under these relatively mild conditions, however, would need to have a that is about 0.5eV less negative than that of the chlorinated RuO2 surfaces. An increase in temperature increases the TOF significantly and shifts the top of the volcano to stronger oxygen binding energies, thus making the investigated ruthenium catalysts optimal at temperatures above approximately 700K.
Figure4b shows the TOF as a function of the reaction temperature for the RuO2 catalyst with 50% and 100% chlorine in the bridge position. Chlorine production is found to take off at around 500K (TOF(50%Clbr)=0.7s1; TOF(100%Clbr)=0.2s1). These theoretical TOFs are in remarkably good agreement with experimental data for chlorine production over ruthenium dioxide, which show that the reaction starts to take off at approximately 500K.3 According to our model, a more optimal choice of the catalyst could theoretically increase the TOF at 500K to about 20s1, thus increasing the catalytic activity by more than an order of magnitude. Our analysis also suggests that it would be possible to run the Deacon process with a reasonable TOF at reaction temperatures that are about 100K lower than those used for RuO2 catalysts, if one would be able to find an oxide material with the optimal catalytic properties. This finding would mark a significant improvement since the high reaction temperatures of the Deacon process represent one of its major drawbacks.
The above analysis builds on the linear energy relations that again are constructed from density functional theory which has an inherent limitation in accuracy of at least 0.10.2eV. Since some of the considered energy differences are of that order, one should be cautious. Other facets or defect sites could also play a role. For example, on TiO2, any activity for O2 dissociation must occur over different types of active sites. However, the position of the volcano-curve is rather stable with respect to the variations in the underlying linear energy relations, and the calculations correspond well to the available experimental data, which suggests that the (110) surface could be the most relevant for activity under the industrial reaction conditions.
Conclusions Using the hydrochloride oxidation as an example, we showed that it is possible to apply linear energy relations over rutile metal-oxide surfaces in such a way that a rather complex reaction can be described using one single descriptor. This descriptor was successfully used to establish a reactivity volcano by introducing a detailed microkinetic model. Importantly, the theoretical model is capable of reproducing experimental findings with good accuracy. Linear energy relations combined with microkinetic modeling can thus potentially provide a powerful tool for the computational discovery of new oxide materials for catalytic processes, which has already proven useful in transition-metal heterogeneous catalysis.17,18 Having established the volcano relationship for the Deacon process, new catalytic materials can now be screened based on the dissociative oxygen adsorption energy alone. This method provides a simple and fast way of screening by means of first principles calculations, and could eventually lead to the discovery of improved catalysts. RuO2 is a relatively expensive material, and replacing RuO2 with cheaper and more abundant materials is therefore highly desirable. For such an extension of this study, other factors, such as catalyst stability would have to be taken into account.
Computational Methods Density functional theory calculations were carried out using the Dacapo code,19 which uses a plane wave implementation to describe the valence electrons and Vanderbilt ultrasoft pseudopotentials20 to represent the ionic cores. The kinetic energy cutoff was 350eV. All calculations were performed using the RPBE21 generalized gradient approximation (GGA) functional. The self-consistent electron density was determined by iterative diagonalization of the KohnSham Hamiltonian, with the occupation of the KohnSham states being smeared according to a FermiDirac distribution with a smearing factor of kbT=0.1eV, and Pulay mixing of the resulting electron densities.22 All energies have been extrapolated to kbT=0eV. Slabs consisting of four layers separated by 16Å of vacuum were periodically repeated in a 1×2 unit cell for the (110) surfaces. The two bottom layers of the slabs were fixed in their bulk structure, while the two top layers and possible adsorbates were relaxed until the sum of the absolute forces were smaller than 0.05eVÅ1. A Monkhorst-Pack 4×4×1 k-point sampling was applied in order to sample the surface Brillouin zone.23 The transition state energies were determined by increasing the bond lengths between the two oxygen atoms in small steps (while relaxing all other degrees of freedom) until a saddle point was reached. The vibrational frequencies that were used to determine the zero point energy corrections were calculated in the harmonic normal-mode approximation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 