<quotes>
Electrodes functionalized with [cis- bis(isothiocyanato)bis(2,2-bipyridyl-4,4-dicarboxylato)ruthenium(II) or N3 dye molecules through a combination of spontaneous diazonium grafting, Suzuki cross-coupling and EDC/NHS chemistry (Figure 14c).164 Spectroscopic analysis of the diamond electrodes revealed that approximately 3 x 1014 Ru atoms were present per square centimeter, which is a quite dense film. UPS analysis also indicated that there is a more favorable energy level alignment of the N3 dye with diamond. The HOMO of the dye is situated 0.5 eV below the valence band of diamond, which provides sufficient driving force for hole injection without a too large voltage drop. Proof-of-concept photoelectrochemical measurements of these N3-functionalized surfaces were performed by employing diamond as a working electrode in a three-electrode electrochemical setup. The electrodes where submerged in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 electrolyte solution that contains 5 mM methyl viologen (MV2+), which serves as a redox couple. Under illumination of the electrodes with a 150 W halogen lamp at an intensity of 1.5 sun (150 mW cm-2, AM 1.5G), photocurrents of ca. 25 nA cm-2 were obtained. During these chronoamperometric measurements, a negative bias of -0.1 V was applied to the system as this was previously demonstrated to positively influence the current generation due to the establishment of a net vectorial electron flow from the photocathode to the counter electrode.230, 231 In addition to the commonly employed Ru-based dyes, other metal complexes have been investigated as well for the sensitization of diamond. For instance, manganese phthalocyanines (Mn- Pc) were grafted onto the surface of OH/NH2-terminated boron-doped nanocrystalline diamond (Figure 14 d). This was done through a nucleophilic substitution reaction between the alcohol or amine group at the diamond surface and the metal center of Cl-Mn-Pc.232 Such a functionalization approach will result in a flat geometry of the phthalocyanines on the surface, which impedes high dye coverage. Photoelectrochemical measurements were performed in a phosphate buffed saline (PBS) solution under illumination with a light-emitting diode (LED) operating at 770 nm. In case of the samples where an OH-terminated surface was employed to graft the Mn-Pc dyes, either no or extremely weak photocurrents were observed. In contrast, the NH2-terminated surfaces afforded photocurrents up to 40 nA cm-2. Follow-up work demonstrated that a difference in band bending at the two surfaces is at the origin of the respective photovoltaic behavior. The moderate band bending at NH2-terminated surfaces allows a nearly barrier-free transition from the hole in the HOMO of the dye into diamond. Stronger band bending at OH-terminated surfaces on the other hand results in an energy barrier that is too high to overcome, preventing photocurrent generation.233
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The N3 dye molecules were functionalized onto diamond electrodes through a combination of spontaneous diazonium grafting, Suzuki cross-coupling, and EDC/NHS chemistry. The spectroscopic analysis revealed a dense film of approximately 3 x 1014 Ru atoms per square centimeter, with a favorable energy level alignment of the dye with diamond, providing sufficient driving force for hole injection without a large voltage drop. Under illumination with a 150 W halogen lamp, the diamond electrodes generated photocurrents of about 25 nA cm-2. A negative bias of -0.1 V was applied to the system to positively influence current generation, establishing a net vectorial electron flow from the photocathode to the counter electrode. 

2. Manganese phthalocyanines (Mn-Pc) were grafted onto OH/NH2-terminated boron-doped nanocrystalline diamond through a nucleophilic substitution reaction. The flat geometry of the phthalocyanines on the surface resulted in a lower dye coverage. Photoelectrochemical measurements showed that the NH2-terminated surfaces afforded higher photocurrents (up to 40 nA cm-2) compared to OH-terminated surfaces (either no or extremely weak photocurrents), indicating a difference in band bending at the two surfaces as the origin of their respective photovoltaic behavior. The moderate band bending at NH2-terminated surfaces facilitated a nearly barrier-free transition from the hole in the dye's HOMO to the diamond surface, whereas stronger band bending at OH-terminated surfaces prevented photocurrent generation due to an energy barrier that was too high to overcome.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. N3染料分子通过自发偶氮接枝、Suzuki交叉耦合和EDC/NHS化学被功能性化到金刚石电极上。光谱分析显示每平方厘米大约有3 x 1014个Ru原子，与金刚石的能级排列良好，提供了足够的驱动力量进行空穴注入，而不需要大的电压降。在使用150瓦卤素灯照射下，金刚石电极产生的光电流约为25纳安/平方厘米。系统中应用了负偏置为-0.1伏特，以积极影响电流生成，建立从光阴极到对电极的净矢量电子流。

2. 通过亲核取代反应，在OH/NH2-终止的硼掺杂纳米晶金刚石表面接枝了锰酞菁(Mn-Pc)。酞菁在表面的平面几何结构导致了较低的染料覆盖率。光电化学测量表明，与OH-终止表面相比，NH2-终止表面（最高可达40纳安/平方厘米）产生了更高的光电流，这归因于两表面之间的不同带弯曲。较低的带弯曲使NH2-终止表面能够近乎无势垒地从染料的HOMO中的空穴过渡到金刚石表面，而OH-终止表面由于能量壁垒过高而无法克服，导致光电流生成受到阻碍。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>
Apart from the Suzuki cross-coupling, other Pd-catalyzed reactions have also been investigated for the construction of uninterrupted conjugated diamond-chromophore systems. The Stille cross- coupling was recently deemed unsuitable since a high amount of Pd and Sn impurities remained on the diamond surface due to the unstable nature of the organotin reagents.140 On the other hand, the Sonogashira cross-coupling, which uses more stable alkyne derivatives, was successfully employed to couple alkynylated 2-(benzo[2,1,3]thiadiazol-4-yl)-4-hexyl-4H-dithieno[3,2-b:2,3-d]pyrrole (DTP-BT) onto iodophenyl-functionalized diamond (Figure 15d).159 By varying the employed catalyst system,base and concentration, the surface coverage, which is expressed by the atomic concentration of sulfur as measured by XPS, was increased from 1.1 to 2.3%. The photoresponse of the corresponding diamond electrodes increased accordingly from  200 to  450 nA cm-2 under 0.9 sun illumination at an applied bias of -0.2 V. The possibly negative effects of contamination with Pd were also demonstrated, as the photocurrents for samples that show increased Pd concentrations on the surface were considerably lower. The same alkynylated DTP-BT dye was also attached to an azidophenyl functionalized diamond electrode via CuAAC. By clicking the dye to the diamond surface, a slightly higher surface coverage was obtained. However, the generated photocurrents were 3 times lower (140 nA cm-2). The observed difference was ascribed to the employed linker. In comparison with the flat diamond electrodes functionalized via Suzuki cross-coupling, the photocurrents are slightly lower (taking into account the different light intensities). However, it should be mentioned that the molar extinction coefficient of the DTP-BT chromophore (ε = 18 600 M- 1 cm-1 at λmax = 474 nm) is rather modest and its high HOMO level (-5.21 eV), which is situated slightly above the VBM of diamond, is actually unfavorable for hole injection.A final donor-acceptor chromophore that was thoroughly investigated by Krysova et al. is 4-(bis- (4-[5-(2,2-dicyanovinyl)-thiophene-2-yl]phenyl)amino)benzoic acid or the
P1
dye.
This commercially available chromophore has a high molar extinction coefficient of 58 000 M-1 cm-1 at a wavelength of 468 nm and was previously employed for sensitization of p-NiO,237 making it an excellent starting point in the quest for a suitable diamond sensitizer. The HOMO of P1 (-5.81 eV) is also well below the VBM of diamond in contact with an electrolyte solution. In their first study, BDD (gas feed with a 4,000 ppm B/C ratio) was first non-covalently functionalized by adsorption of a thin (5 nm) layer of polyethyleneimine (PEI). The amine groups on the polymer were then employed to form a stable amide bond through an acylation reaction with the acid chloride derivative of the P1 Page 26 of 53 Journal of Materials Chemistry C Journal of Materials Chemistry C Accepted Manuscript Published on 08 August 2019. Downloaded by Nottingham Trent University on 8/12/2019 1:55:05 PM.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/C9TC03381E
27 dye, P1-Cl (Figure 17a).238 The advantage of this functionalization strategy is obviously the circumvention of the sometimes complicated multi-step surface reaction sequence or the poor yields when the chromophores are directly attached to the surface. Photoelectrochemical measurements in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution with MV2+ as redox couple under 0.18 sun illumination resulted in photocurrents of ca. 130 nA cm-2 at an applied bias of -0.2 V. This demonstrates that PEI, which has insulating properties, does not prevent hole injection into diamond, which proceeds in a tunneling fashion.
In their second study related to the P1 dye, similar BDD electrodes were functionalized in a completely covalent fashion.109 The primary surface functionalization in a near monolayer fashion was done through photochemical grafting of short terminal alkene linkers, bearing a protected amine group. After deprotection, the amine could again be employed to form an amide bond with P1-Cl (Figure 17b).
The employed linkers are N-allyltrifluoroacetamide and
N-
allyltrifluoromethanesulfonamide. Photoelectrochemical measurements on electrodes where the P1 dye was tethered via a sulfonamide linker demonstrated a poorer performance (200 nA cm-2) than when an acetamide linker was employed (900 nA cm-2; under 1 sun illumination and at an applied bias of -0.3 V). This is somewhat surprising since the strong electron-accepting properties of the sulfonamide linker should facilitate photochemical grafting. However, sulfonamide protecting groups also require harsher deprotection conditions. As a result, a lower amount of P1 dye molecules can eventually be coupled in comparison with the acetamide linker, which is reflected in the photocurrents. The value of 900 nA cm-2 for a fully covalently functionalized electrode also compares favorably to the non-covalent approach previously employed, even after taking into account the difference in irradiation intensity. This highlights the importance of the actual carbon-carbon bond formation at the diamond interface.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
3. Sonogashira cross-coupling, which uses more stable alkyne derivatives, was successfully employed to couple alkynylated 2-(benzo[2,1,3]thiadiazol-4-yl)-4-hexyl-4H-dithieno[3,2-b:2,3-d]pyrrole (DTP-BT) onto iodophenyl-functionalized diamond. The surface coverage, expressed as the atomic concentration of sulfur as measured by XPS, was increased from 1.1 to 2.3% by varying the catalyst system, base, and concentration. The corresponding diamond electrodes showed an increased photoresponse from 200 to 450 nA cm-2 under 0.9 sun illumination at an applied bias of -0.2 V. The presence of excess Palladium (Pd) was shown to negatively affect the performance, as samples with increased Pd concentrations on the surface exhibited significantly lower photocurrents. The same alkynylated DTP-BT dye was also attached to an azidophenyl-functionalized diamond electrode using CuAAC. This resulted in a slightly higher surface coverage but generated photocurrents 3 times lower (140 nA cm-2). The difference was attributed to the linker used. Compared to flat diamond electrodes functionalized via Suzuki cross-coupling, the photocurrents were slightly lower, considering the different light intensities. However, the DTP-BT chromophore has a modest molar extinction coefficient (ε = 18 600 M-1 cm-1 at λmax = 474 nm) and its high HOMO level (-5.21 eV), which is slightly above the valence band maximum (VBM) of diamond, makes it unfavorable for hole injection. The final donor-acceptor chromophore investigated by Krysova et al. is 4-(bis-(4-[5-(2,2-dicyanovinyl)-thiophene-2-yl]phenyl)amino)benzoic acid or the P1 dye. This commercially available chromophore has a high molar extinction coefficient of 58 000 M-1 cm-1 at a wavelength of 468 nm and was previously used for sensitization of p-NiO, making it an excellent starting point for a suitable diamond sensitizer. The HOMO of P1 is also well below the VBM of diamond when in contact with an electrolyte solution. In their first study, BDD was non-covalently functionalized by adsorbing a thin (5 nm) layer of polyethyleneimine (PEI), followed by an acylation reaction with the acid chloride derivative of the P1 dye, P1-Cl. This functionalization strategy circumvents the complexity of multi-step surface reactions or poor yields when chromophores are directly attached to the surface. Photoelectrochemical measurements in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution with MV2+ as a redox couple under 0.18 sun illumination resulted in photocurrents of approximately 130 nA cm-2 at an applied bias of -0.2 V, demonstrating that PEI, with its insulating properties, does not prevent hole injection into diamond, which occurs via tunneling. In their second study, similar BDD electrodes were functionalized covalently through photochemical grafting of short terminal alkene linkers with a protected amine group. After deprotection, the amine was used to form an amide bond with P1-Cl. When the P1 dye was tethered via a sulfonamide linker, the performance was poorer (200 nA cm-2) than when an acetamide linker was used (900 nA cm-2; under 1 sun illumination and at an applied bias of -0.3 V). The strong electron-accepting properties of the sulfonamide linker should facilitate photochemical grafting, but it also requires harsher deprotection conditions, resulting in a lower amount of P1 dye molecules coupled compared to the acetamide linker, which is reflected in the photocurrents.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
3. 使用更稳定的炔衍生物的Sonogashira交叉偶联成功将alkynylated 2-(benzo[2,1,3]thiadiazol-4-yl)-4-hexyl-4H-dithieno[3,2-b:2,3-d]pyrrole (DTP-BT)偶联到碘苯基功能化的金刚石上。通过调整催化剂体系、碱和浓度，表面覆盖率由1.1增加至2.3%，表达为通过XPS测量的硫原子浓度。相应的金刚石电极在0.9太阳光照下，偏压为-0.2伏特时，光响应从200上升至450纳安/平方厘米。Pd的残留显著降低了性能，样品表面Pd浓度增加导致光电流显著降低。同样，使用了azidophenyl功能化的金刚石电极并采用CuAAC连接DTP-BT染料，结果表面覆盖率稍高但光电流仅为140纳安/平方厘米，比使用乙酰胺链接时低3倍（900纳安/平方厘米）。这一差异归因于所使用的链接物。与通过Suzuki交叉偶联功能性化的平坦金刚石电极相比，考虑不同的光照强度后，光电流略有下降。然而，DTP-BT染料的摩尔吸收系数相对较小（ε = 18 600 M-1 cm-1在λmax = 474 nm处），其较高的HOMO能级（-5.21 eV），稍微高于与电解质溶液接触的金刚石价带最大值（VBM），实际上不利于空穴注入。Krysova等人最后研究的供体-受体染料是4-(bis-(4-[5-(2,2-dicyanovinyl)-thiophene-2-yl]phenyl)amino)benzoic acid或P1染料。这种商业可获得的染料具有468纳米波长下58 000 M-1 cm-1的高摩尔吸收系数，并且以前用于p-NiO的敏化，使其成为合适金刚石敏化剂的优秀起点。P1的HOMO也位于与电解质溶液接触的金刚石价带最大值之下。在他们的第一项研究中，BDD通过吸附一层薄薄的（5纳米）聚乙烯亚胺（PEI）非共价功能性化，随后通过酸氯衍生物的酰化反应与P1染料P1-Cl形成稳定的酰胺键。这一功能性化策略避免了多步表面反应的复杂性和直接将染料附着到表面上时可能产生的低产率。在0.1 M Na2SO4溶液中进行的光电解化学测量，在MV2+作为氧化还原耦合剂的条件下，在0.18太阳光照下，偏压为-0.2伏特时，光电流约为130纳安/平方厘米，证明了具有绝缘性质的PEI不会阻止空穴注入到金刚石中，空穴注入通过隧穿方式进行。在他们的第二项研究中，类似的BDD电极通过光化学接枝的短末端烯链接器的近单层功能性化，该链接器带有保护的氨基组分。脱保护后，氨基再次用于与P1-Cl形成酰胺键。当P1染料通过磺酰胺链接接枝时，性能较差（200纳安/平方厘米），而当使用乙酰胺链接时，性能较好（900纳安/平方厘米；在1太阳光照下，偏压为-0.3伏特）。强电子接受性质的磺酰胺链接应该促进光化学接枝，但这也需要更苛刻的脱保护条件，导致与乙酰胺链接相比，P1染料分子耦合的数量较少，这反映在光电流中。与通过Suzuki交叉偶联功能性化的平坦金刚石电极相比，考虑到不同的光照强度后，光电流略有下降。然而，DTP-BT染料的摩尔吸收系数相对较小（ε = 18 600 M-1 cm-1在λmax = 474 nm处），其较高的HOMO能级（-5.21 eV），稍微高于与电解质溶液接触的金刚石价带最大值（VBM），实际上不利于空穴注入。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
