<quotes>
[1] "The hydrogen termination on as-grown CVD diamond is readily exchanged for oxygen, nitrogen and even halogen atoms, drastically altering the surface properties."
[2] "Depending on the treatment protocol or the applied potential during electrochemical oxidation, the ratio of alcohol, carbonyl and ether species can be controlled."
[3] "OH-termination is desired as this enables straightforward further functionalization via silanization, esterification or thermal alkylation."
[4] "Nitrogen-terminated surfaces a high amount of primary amine groups is targeted toward subsequent amidation reactions, which can be achieved by controlled plasma treatments."
[5] "H-terminated surfaces have also been employed to covalently attach small (linker) molecules via stable and robust carbon-carbon bonds."
[6] "Functionalization of diamond with molecules bearing reactive moieties via diazonium or photochemical grafting enabled the exploration of numerous chemical reactions on diamond."
[7] "Combined efforts on optimization of the employed chromophores and diamond surface chemistry resulted in the improvement of the photocurrent from a few nA to 6.5 A cm-2 for boron-doped nanocrystalline thin films and even 22 A cm-2 for boron-doped diamond foams."
[8] "The photoelectrochemical properties of diamond have been harnessed for the creation of solvated electrons, which are extremely potent reduction reagents that allow for the synthesis of ammonia from nitrogen and the reduction of carbon dioxide."
[9] "Decorating diamond with protonated primary amines for instance increases the ammonia yield by a 3-fold."
[10] "Embedding Ag nanoparticles in the diamond film or putting them on top of the surface results in a more efficient reduction of carbon dioxide to carbon monoxide."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The hydrogen termination on diamond can be easily exchanged for oxygen, nitrogen, or halogen atoms, significantly changing the surface properties. 
2. The ratio of alcohol, carbonyl, and ether species on the diamond surface can be controlled by the treatment protocol or applied potential during electrochemical oxidation.
3. OH-termination is preferred for further facile functionalization via silanization, esterification, or thermal alkylation.
4. Primary amine groups on nitrogen-terminated surfaces can be utilized for subsequent amidation reactions, achievable through controlled plasma treatments.
5. H-terminated surfaces enable the covalent attachment of small molecules via stable carbon-carbon bonds.
6. Functionalization of diamond with molecules using diazonium or photochemical grafting methods has facilitated the exploration of various chemical reactions on the diamond surface.
7. The combination of optimized chromophores and diamond surface chemistry has led to a significant improvement in photocurrent, ranging from a few nA to 6.5 A cm-2 for boron-doped nanocrystalline thin films and up to 22 A cm-2 for boron-doped diamond foams.
8. The photoelectrochemical properties of diamond have been leveraged to create solvated electrons, which are potent reduction agents for synthesizing ammonia from nitrogen and reducing carbon dioxide.
9. Protonated primary amines on the diamond surface can triple the ammonia yield.
10. Embedding silver nanoparticles within the diamond film or placing them on top of the surface enhances the efficiency of carbon dioxide reduction to carbon monoxide.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 石墨烯上的氢终止可以很容易地交换为氧、氮或卤素原子，显著改变表面性质。
2. 通过氧化处理协议或应用氧化电位，酒精、羰基和醚物种的比例可以在电化学氧化中控制。
3. OH-终止是进一步易于功能化的方式，通过硅烷化、酯化或热烷基化。
4. 氮终止表面上的主要胺基团可以通过受控等离子体处理用于后续的酰胺反应。
5. H-终止表面允许通过稳定的碳-碳键共价连接小分子。
6. 使用二苯胺或光化学接枝方法对钻石进行功能性化，使我们能够探索钻石表面的多种化学反应。
7. 优化染料和钻石表面化学的结合导致了从几个纳安到6.5安培厘米平方的硼掺杂纳米晶薄膜的显著电流改进，甚至高达22安培厘米平方的硼掺杂金刚石泡沫。
8. 利用钻石的光电化学性质产生了溶剂化的电子，它们是合成氨气和二氧化碳还原的强大还原剂。
9. 碳酸氢盐在钻石表面的三倍增加氨产量。
10. 将银纳米颗粒嵌入钻石薄膜或放置在表面顶部可以提高二氧化碳还原至一氧化碳的效率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
