I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Power Sources 195 (2010) 31403144 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Journal of Power Sources journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jpowsour Short communication Regenerating Pt3dPt model electrocatalysts through oxidationreduction cycles monitored at atmospheric pressure Carl A. Menning, Jingguang G. Chen Department of Chemical Engineering, Center for Catalytic Science and Technology, University of Delaware, 150 Academy St., Newark, DE 19716, United States a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 15 October 2009 Received in revised form 22 November 2009 Accepted 25 November 2009 Available online 2 December 2009 Keywords: Oxygen Hydrogen Segregation Nickel Platinum a b s t r a c t The interchange between the PtNiPt and NiPtPt bimetallic configurations in O2 and H2 is confirmed experimentally at atmospheric pressure using in situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). The subsurface Pt3dPt structure, a desirable configuration as cathode electrocatalysts for PEM fuel cells, is found to be preferred in the reducing environment of H2 whereas the surface 3dPtPt configuration is preferred in O2. This process has been found to be reversible, providing useful insights into the maintenance and regeneration of the desirable subsurface structure. 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The subsurface Pt3dPt structures, where 3d represents Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, Cr, V, and Ti, have been identified as promising catalysts for a wide range of applications, from the oxygen reduction reac- tion (ORR) at the cathode of PEM fuel cells [1] to hydrogenation reactions in heterogeneous catalysis [2,3]. These bimetallic surfaces have been shown to span a wide range of chemical and physi- cal properties beyond a simple combination of the parent metal properties [46]. The unique properties of the subsurface Pt3dPt bimetallic structures are due to the strain effect from lattice mis- match between alloy metals and the electronic effect related to the difference in electronic configuration [7]. However, one of the challenges in the application of these bimetallic structures is the tendency of the subsurface 3d atoms to segregate on top of the surface Pt layer, therefore losing the desirable electrocatalytic and catalytic properties. The ability to maintain and/or regenerate the desirable Pt3dPt subsurface structure is of critical importance for their applications in fuel cells and hydrogenation reactions.
Several recent fundamental surface science and theoretical studies have been performed to determine the thermodynamic stability and kinetic transformation of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures [4]. The surface science experiments have been typically performed under ultra-high vacuum (UHV) conditions detailing Corresponding author. Tel.: +1 302 831 0642; fax: +1 302 831 2085.
E-mail address: jgchen@udel.edu (J.G. Chen). the stability under a number of reaction environments, such as in low pressure of hydrogen and oxygen. However, the extension of these UHV studies to atmospheric conditions, which are more relevant to the maintenance and regeneration of the subsurface structures, has yet to be established. This is mainly due to the dif- ficulty in the in situ measurements of spectroscopic changes from the interchange between the surface and subsurface structures at higher pressures. The current communication will detail a novel approach to quantify metal segregation at atmospheric pressure by monitoring monolayer bimetallic surfaces prepared in UHV and subsequently exposed to hydrogen and oxygen at atmospheric con- ditions. The changes in the surface composition, from the diffusion and segregation of the 3d metals, were monitored using the white line of the 3d metals with X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS).
Due to the high intensity and energy of the synchrotron radiation, XAS offers the unique advantage to monitor changes in monolayer coverages under in situ reaction conditions.
In addition to determining the activation barriers for the diffu- sion and segregation of 3d metals in Pt3dPt, the current study is also focused on bridging the pressure gap from UHV to atmospheric pressure to more closely resemble the conditions in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. Previous studies by this group have aimed at bridging the materials gap of Pt3dPt bimetallic struc- tures prepared on single crystal Pt(1 1 1) [8] and on polycrystalline Pt foils [9] to incorporate both the additional (1 0 0) crystal facet as well as lower coordinated sites found on supported nanoparti- cles. Qualitatively, both single crystal and polycrystalline bimetallic systems displayed similar behaviour in the environments probed. 0378-7753/$  see front matter  2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.jpowsour.2009.11.109
C.A. Menning, J.G. Chen / Journal of Power Sources 195 (2010) 31403144
3141 The subsurface Pt3dPt structure was thermodynamically pre- ferred in vacuum and the subsurface 3d metals were drawn to the surface using oxygen to form the surface 3dPtPt configuration [8,9]. Using these fundamental understandings from UHV measure- ments, the current study is focused on bridging the pressure gap and demonstrating that similar segregation kinetics is present at more applicable pressures.
2. Methods
2.1. Techniques
The samples were prepared in a UHV system and character- ized using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) in a chamber with a base pressure of 4 × 109 Torr, as described previously [9].
Ni and Co were deposited using line-of-sight physical vapor depo- sition (PVD). X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was performed on beamline X-18b at the National Synchrotron Light Source (NSLS) at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The samples were exposed to 5% H2 in He or 10% O2 in He using an in situ reaction cell. The temperature was monitored using a K-type thermocouple.
2.2. Sample preparation
The Pt foil sample was cut from a larger polycrystalline Pt foil (99.95%) with a thickness of 0.004 mm. The foil was affixed onto two tantalum posts by crimping a Ta frame around the edge of the foil to maintain physical contact. The posts were used as electrical and thermal contacts for resistive heating, which allowed the tem- perature of the Pt foil to be varied between 300 K and 1200 K. The temperature was monitored by a K-type thermocouple welded to the back of the foil. The surface was cleaned by successive cycles of sputtering Ar+ followed by annealing in vacuum to 1050 K until the surface contaminants, such as C and O, were below the detection limit of XPS.
The Ni/Pt or Co/Pt bimetallic surfaces were prepared by evap- orating Ni or Co by line-of-sight physical vapor deposition (PVD) onto the Pt foil using a high-purity Ni (99.994%) or Co (99.999%) wire wrapped around a tungsten filament. The Pt foil sample was at a temperature of 300 K during deposition. The coverage of the Ni or Co overlayer was estimated using the Ni(2p3/2)/Pt(4f) or Co(2p3/2)/Pt(4f) XPS ratio as described in our previous studies on the Co/Pt(1 1 1) surface [10] or estimated by screening calculations using inelastic mean free paths (IMFP) from [11].
3. DFT predicted segregation energy of Pt3dPt(1 1 1) in
vacuum, H2, and O2
3.1. Method
The ab initio calculations were performed using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) version 4.6 [1214]. The mono- layer bimetallic systems were modeled using the closed-packed fcc(1 1 1) surface of the host metal, Pt. The PW91 functional was used within the generalized gradient approximation with an energy cutoff on the basis set of 396 eV. The bimetallic systems were mod- eled using a periodic 2 × 2 unit cell with four metal layers. The slabs were separated by 6 equivalent layers of vacuum in the epitaxial direction. The surface 3dPtPt(1 1 1) configuration was modeled with the first layer composed of the admetal and the remaining three layers composed of Pt. The subsurface Pt3dPt(1 1 1) config- uration had the Pt metal in the first, third, and fourth layers while the second layer was completely substituted with the admetal. The top two layers were allowed to relax to the lowest energy config- uration while the third and fourth layers were frozen at the bulk host metal distance of 2.83 Å for Pt, as previously determined for the PW91 exchange/correlation functional [15]. A MonkhorstPack k-point mesh of 3 × 3 × 1 was used, having 5 irreducible k-points in the first Brillouin zone. This has been shown to be sufficient for the current study as previous studies have shown negligible change in the results for higher k-point meshes [16]. For the convergence criteria of the energy minimization, the calculations were iterated until the total energy change between ionic steps was less than
0.0001 eV. The d-band center of mass was calculated by projecting
the plane waves onto spherical harmonic orbitals. The d-band cen- ter of mass for this paper is defined as the first moment of only the d-orbital bands that have some degree of electron occupation for the four surface atoms using a Gaussian smearing method between k-points and a short cut-off radius of 1.5 Å. The segregation energy in hydrogen and oxygen was simulated using a coverage of 0.5 ML.
This coverage was modeled by placing two separate H or O atoms in 3-fold hollow sites per unit cell.
3.2. DFT predictions
The thermodynamically preferred configuration is directly related to the chemical environment present on the surface. Fig. 1 shows the predicted potential for segregation for a 3d metal atom to go from the subsurface to the surface and the value is scaled per Pt3d metal pair. These values were calculated for the environ- ments of vacuum, and with 0.5 monolayer (ML) atomic hydrogen and 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, using procedures described previously [16]. The thermodynamic potential for segregation is defined as follows: Eseg = EA/3dPtPt EA/Pt3dPt
M
(1) where Eseg is the thermodynamic potential for segregation per Pt3d pair, EA/3dPtPt is the total energy for the surface config- uration with adsorbate A, EA/Pt3dPt is the total energy for the subsurface configuration with adsorbate A, and M is the total num- ber of Pt3d pairs per unit cell.
As defined in a previous publication [17], a positive Eseg value indicates that the subsurface Pt3dPt is more stable. The DFT results in Fig. 1 predict that for the reducing environment of vac- uum and 0.5 ML atomic hydrogen, the subsurface configuration is Fig. 1. Correlation between thermodynamic potential for segregation, Eseg and the difference in d-band center, εd, for Pt3d systems exposed to vacuum, and with
0.5 ML atomic hydrogen and 0.5 ML atomic oxygen.
3142
C.A. Menning, J.G. Chen / Journal of Power Sources 195 (2010) 31403144
thermodynamically preferred whereas in 0.5 ML atomic oxygen,the surface configuration is preferred. There is a nearly linear trend with the difference in d-band, εd, with PtNiPt(1 1 1) having the smallest potential and PtTiPt(1 1 1) the largest for diffu- sion/segregation of the 3d atoms.
4. Experimental results
As demonstrated previously, Ni or Co can be deposited on the Pt substrate layer-by-layer in UHV at room temperature, leading to the formation of the surface 3dPtPt configuration [3]. Alter- natively, if the surface is annealed in vacuum to 600700 K, the 3d metal can be driven inwards to create the subsurface Pt3dPt configuration [3]. The same procedure was used for preparing the surface and subsurface structures in the current study, except on ultra-thin polycrystalline Pt foil (4 m thick) to reduce the self- absorption in XAS measurements. Briefly, monolayer Ni or Co was deposited using line-of-sight physical vapor deposition in UHV.
Fig. 2 shows the characteristic Ni K edge spectra for the as-prepared PtNiPt and NiPtPt foil samples prepared in UHV. The surface NiPtPt sample has a higher white line peak intensity at 8351 eV compared to the subsurface PtNiPt sample, which is attributed to the removal of valence electrons from Ni due to oxidation of the surface Ni atoms [18]. There is an additional Ni K-edge feature for the PtNiPt sam- ple at 8374 eV, which is not present for the NiPtPt sample. This peak is in the spectroscopic region assigned to multiple scattering events from more delocalized states. Due to these complex scatter- ing events, features in this region are more sensitive to the changes in the neighbouring shells of atoms surrounding the element of interest [1820]. The 8374 eV feature may capture the configura- tion interchange since Ni atoms in the subsurface structure have a complete first shell and more complete higher order shells whereas those in the surface structure do not.
The comparison in Fig. 2 qualitatively confirms that XAS can cap- ture the difference between surface NiPtPt and subsurface PtNiPt in the as-prepared samples. These characteristic spectroscopic fea- tures are then used to determine the diffusion and segregation kinetics of Ni atoms. The bottom set of spectra in Fig. 3a shows the comparison of an initially UHV prepared NiPtPt sample before and after multiple cycles of oxidation in O2 and reduction in H2 at 693 K. The changes between the two spectra in Fig. 3a mimic the dif- ferences seen between the as-prepared PtNiPt and NiPtPt scans in Fig. 2, indicating that the interchange between the surface and sub- surface structures can occur from oxidation and reduction cycles.
The larger differences seen in Fig. 3a is attributed to the fact that Fig. 2. XANES of the Ni K-edge for PtNiPt and NiPtPt as-prepared and repre- sentative structures for the as-prepared samples shown for the (1 1 1) facet.
Fig. 3. (a) XANES of the Ni K-edge for a PtNiPt sample after reduction and after oxidation at room temperature and at 700 K, and (b) XANES of the Co K-edge for Co bulk reference sample, and CoPtPt sample after oxidation and reduction. the UHV as-prepared PtNiPt sample most likely had some extent of oxygen-induced segregation since the sample was exposed to ambient atmosphere at room temperature for approximately one week during transport to the beamline. Furthermore, Fig. 3a shows that the NiPtPt and subsurface PtNiPt samples do not completely resemble the Ni reference foil (top spectrum), confirming that the Ni monolayer is not agglomerating into bulk-like particles.
As shown in Fig. 3b, CoPtPt samples exposed to H2 and O2 showed similar spectroscopic changes as noted for the NiPtPt sys- tem. The spectroscopic changes show similar inward diffusion of Co in H2 and outward segregation in O2. In addition, a higher energy Co K-edge feature is present at 7752 eV in PtCoPt and absent in CoPtPt, confirming that this higher energy feature can be poten- tially used as an indicator of the presence of subsurface 3d atoms in the Pt3dPt structures.
In order to quantify the apparent activation barrier for the segre- gation of Ni at atmospheric pressure, the intensity of the white line peak at 8351 eV was monitored as a function of exposure time and temperature. The exposure series for O2 is shown in Fig. 4 where the absorbance intensity is shown as a function of oxygen exposure in the temperature range of 633693 K. Beginning with a subsurface Fig. 4. (a) Intensity of Ni K edge at 8351 eV for a PtNiPt sample as a function of oxy- gen exposure at atmospheric pressure and (b) Arrhenius analysis for the activation barrier from PtNiPt to NiPtPt in oxygen using the time for  to reach 0.112.
C.A. Menning, J.G. Chen / Journal of Power Sources 195 (2010) 31403144
3143 Table 1 Estimated time to achieve the segregation of approximately half of the subsurface Ni layer at different temperatures.
Temperature Time to segregate approximately half of the subsurface Ni layer From Pt(1 0 0) (current study) From Pt(1 1 1) [17]
693 K
332 s
0.011 s
673 K
656 s
0.016 s
653 K
1352 s
0.024 s
633 K
2917 s
0.037 s
353 K (estimated) 1 × 1012 s 2200 s configuration, as the duration to O2 exposure increases, the white line peak absorbance increases. In addition, the disappearance of the peak at 8374 eV indicates that subsurface Ni atoms are seg- regating to the surface. Using an Arrhenius equation, an apparent activation barrier of 32 kcal/mol is found.
In order to correlate the rate of Ni segregation to a typical PEMFC operating temperature of 353 K, Table 1 summarizes the time it would take for the Ni K white line intensity to reach a value of = 0.112, which corresponds to the segregation of approximately half of the subsurface Ni layer to the surface. In the second column in Table 1, the time values at 633, 653, 673 and 693 K are obtained from experiments. The time at 353 K is estimated by assuming a similar activation barrier and preexponential factor in the Arrhe- nius equation. As discussed in a previous study [17], the segregation of subsurface Ni atoms from polycrystalline Pt show two distinct activation barriers. The segregation from the Pt(1 0 0) region has an activation barrier similar to the one determined in the current study, while the activation barrier from the Pt(1 1 1) region has a value of 17 kcal/mol. This value is used to estimate the time for the segregation of approximately half of the subsurface Ni layer to the surface, as listed in the third column in Table 1. The values in Table 1 represent the approximate time scale for the segregation when thermal energy is provided to overcome the activation barri- ers. Although the values listed in Table 1 do not include the effects of applied voltage and the presence of liquid layers as in typical fuel cell operation conditions, the different trend between the segrega- tion time from the Pt(1 0 0) and Pt(1 1 1) regions should remain the same.
Fig. 5. (a) Intensity of Ni K edge at 8351 eV for a NiPtPt sample as a function of hydro- gen exposure at atmospheric pressure and (b) Arrhenius analysis for the activation barrier from NiPtPt to PtNiPt in hydrogen using the time for  to reach 0.109.
A similar procedure was used for monitoring the Ni reduc- tion and diffusion into the subsurface as shown in Fig. 5.
The white line peak absorbance intensity is shown to decrease with increasing exposure to hydrogen. In addition, the reap- pearance of the peak at 8374 eV indicates that surface Ni atoms are diffusing into the subsurface. Using the same analysis procedure, an apparent activation barrier of 13 kcal/mol is deter- mined.
Qualitatively PtCo followed a similar diffusion and segregation process as seen for PtNi but due to the lower signal to noise ratio for the Co K edge and the lower activation barriers for PtCo, the same quantification of PtCo could not be performed at the current time.
Further studies are necessary in order to optimize the experimental set-up to allow for the quantification of PtCo and other Pt3d sys- tems. Additional information can be obtained by employing other techniques, such as using XPS to follow the segregation of 3d met- als [21] and the O K-edge regions in near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (NEXAFS) to investigate the formation of 3d-O bonds [22].
5. Conclusions
The thermodynamically preferred configurations in O2 and H2 are predicted from DFT calculations and confirmed exper- imentally at atmospheric pressures. The subsurface Pt3dPt configuration is preferred in the reducing environment of H2 whereas the surface 3dPtPt configuration is preferred in O2.
This process has been found to be reversible, being able to cycle between the two configurations. Furthermore, the activa- tion barrier for the segregation of subsurface Ni in atmospheric O2 is found to be 32 kcal/mol, similar to that determined under UHV conditions. The activation barrier for hydrogen-induced diffusion of surface Ni has been determined to be approxi- mately 13 kcal/mol. Most importantly, the in situ observation of the reversible interchange between the Pt3dPt and 3dPtPt configurations at atmospheric pressure should provide useful insights into the maintenance and regeneration of the desirable subsurface structure in catalytic and electrocatalytic applica- tions.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do experimental techniques such as HREELS and AES verify and quantify the oxygen-induced surface segregation of subsurface 3d atoms (particularly Ni and Co) in Pt-3d-Pt(111) bimetallic systems, and how do the measured segregation kinetics and activation barriers compare with DFT predictions for these systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 