<quotes>
[1] "Recently, the sensitivity of the TPR technique to detect the changes in the surface structure of alumina-supported molybdena catalysts produced by phosphorus incorporation has been shown."
[2] "Since the phosphorus is usually added as phosphoric acid, which implies the use of impregnating solutions with different pH, depending on the preparation method and the loadings of phosphorus and active metal, it is thus interesting to determine the influence of the pH of the impregnating solution, independently of the effect of phosphorus."
[3] "We report in this work a comparative study of the effect of the impregnation pH on the structure of MOO,supported on A1203 and Si02 by a combined use of TPR, X-ray diffraction (XRD ), and zeta potential measurements."
[4] "The TPR profiles of all the Al,O,-supported catalysts (Fig. 4a) exhibited the two reduction regions previously found [ 71. No significant changes in the profiles with the pH were observed, except a small increase in the intensity of the first peak at T,,,=41O
C
(T,,, - temperature at which the reduction rate is maximal) and the appearance of a small shoulder at about 480C for the sample prepared at pH = 2."
[5] "In the case of SiOz-supported catalysts, the detection of diffraction lines whose positions are in good agreement with crystalline MOO, occurred at relatively low (6 wt.-% MOO,) loading and even at basic pH, as Figs. lb and c show, but their relative intensities do not completely agree with Moos. These lines were significantly more intense at acidic pH, and obviously at high mo- lybdenum loadings."
[6] "For the purpose of a better comparison, Fig. 3 shows the variation of the ZPC with the molybdenum loading for the catalysts prepared at pH 2 and 11."
[7] "The TPR profiles of bulk MOO, (peaks at 625 and 760 C) can clearly be seen by comparing Fig. 6 and the inset of Fig. 4b."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The sensitivity of the TPR technique in detecting changes in the surface structure of molybdena catalysts produced by phosphorus incorporation has been demonstrated. The study focuses on determining the impact of the impregnating solution's pH on the catalyst structure, independent of phosphorus effects.

2. The research examines the effect of the impregnation pH on the structure of molybdena catalysts supported on alumina and silica, utilizing a combination of TPR, XRD, and zeta potential measurements.

3. The TPR profiles of the Al2O3-supported catalysts showed slight changes with pH, including a small increase in the intensity of the first peak at 410°C and the appearance of a shoulder at around 480°C for the sample prepared at pH 2.

4. In the case of SiO2-supported catalysts, crystalline MOO3 lines were detected at low MOO3 loadings and even at basic pH, but their relative intensities did not fully align with MOO3 standards. The lines were more intense at acidic pH and high MOO3 loadings.

5. The variation of the zero point of charge (ZPC) with molybdenum loading is illustrated for catalysts prepared at pH 2 and 11, aiding in a better comparison.

6. The TPR profiles of bulk MOO3 (peaks at 625 and 760°C) are visually compared with those of SiO2-supported catalysts, as shown in Fig. 6 and the inset of Fig. 4b.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 已经证明了TPR技术在检测由磷元素引入的钼氧化物催化剂表面结构变化方面的敏感性。研究关注的是确定浸渍溶液pH值对负载金属和活性金属的催化剂结构的影响，独立于磷的影响。

2. 研究通过结合使用TPR、X射线衍射(XRD)和ζ电位测量，比较了钼氧化物催化剂在铝氧基和二氧化硅上的结构受pH值影响的情况。

3. 铝氧化物支持的催化剂的TPR谱图显示了轻微的变化与pH值，包括第一峰在410°C时强度的小增加以及pH值为2时样品中出现的约480°C的肩峰。

4. 对于二氧化硅支持的催化剂，当负载较低（6%）和甚至在碱性pH下时，检测到了与MOO3位置相匹配的结晶线，但其相对强度并不完全符合MOO3标准。这些线在酸性pH和高MOO3负载下更强烈。

5. 通过将pH为2和11的催化剂的molybdenum含量与ZPC变化进行比较，以获得更好的对比。

6. 将bulk MOO3（峰值在625和760°C）的TPR谱图与SiO2支持的催化剂进行了视觉比较，如图6和图4b的插入所示。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
