<quotes>
[1] "It is reasonable to assume that the two pictures coexist. To test whether this is the case, we have calculated the energy, ΔEv, for forming an oxygen vacancy in the surface layer for two dopant positions: one near the site where the oxygen vacancy is formed and one away from it."
[2] "We find that the low-valence dopants (La and Y for CeO2 and Li and Na for MgO) have both a long-range and a short-range effect. High-valence dopants (Al, Sc, and Y) in MgO(001) slightly increase the energy of vacancy formation next to them, with the exception of Ga, which behaves differently because it is reduced when the vacancy is formed."
[3] "In the case of TiO2, the position of the polarons can substantially change the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation. We have examined a few polaron locations when an oxygen vacancy is made in doped ceria and found the effect of their location to be small (0.20.3 eV)."
[4] "We found that these dopants do not affect the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation at a large distance (Table 1)."
[5] "One common feature of these dopants is that their bond to oxygen, in their own oxide, is much shorter than the bond between Ce and oxygen in CeO2."
[6] "The lack of correlation between the strength of the dopantoxygen bond in the oxide of the dopant and the effect of the dopant on ΔEv is explained, in part, by the ability of the Ce ions to change easily their formal charge from +4 to +3."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the influence of dopants on the catalytic properties of metal oxides, focusing on how low-valence dopants (LVDs) and high-valence dopants (HVDs) impact the energy required to form oxygen vacancies in the surface layers of different oxides. It highlights that LVDs, such as La and Y in CeO2 and Li and Na in MgO, exhibit both local and global effects, altering the energy of oxygen vacancy formation near and far from the dopant. In contrast, HVDs like Al, Sc, and Y in MgO(001) tend to increase the energy of vacancy formation next to them, except for Ga, which behaves differently due to reduction when the vacancy is formed. The document also mentions that the position of polarons in oxygen vacancies in doped ceria has a minimal impact on the energy of vacancy formation. Furthermore, it notes that dopants affecting the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation do not necessarily correlate with the strength of their bond to oxygen in their own oxides, partly due to the Ce ion's ability to change its formal charge easily. Lastly, the document emphasizes that Pt, Ru, Zr, Nb, Ta, Mo, and W do not affect the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation at a large distance, despite changing the Fermi level.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文档讨论了掺杂剂对金属氧化物催化性能的影响，重点关注低价掺杂剂（LVD）和高价掺杂剂（HVD）如何影响表面层中氧空位形成所需的能量。它强调了LVD，如CeO2中的La和Y以及MgO中的Li和Na，表现出局部和全球效应，改变靠近和远离掺杂剂的氧空位形成能。相比之下，MgO(001)中的HVD，如Al、Sc和Y，倾向于增加附近氧空位形成的能量，除了Ga，由于形成氧空位时的还原作用而表现出不同行为。文档还提到，在掺杂铈化物中的氧空位位置上的极化子的影响非常小。此外，它指出，影响氧空位形成能的掺杂剂与它们在自己氧化物中的氧键强度之间没有必然的相关性，部分原因是铈离子可以轻松地改变其形式电荷。最后，文档强调了Pt、Ru、Zr、Nb、Ta、Mo和W在远距离上不会影响氧空位形成能，尽管它们改变了费米能级。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
