element not found
element not found
Journals
Physical Review Letters
Physical Review X
PRX Energy
PRX Life
PRX Quantum
Reviews of Modern Physics
Physical Review A
Physical Review B
Physical Review C
Physical Review D
Physical Review E
Physical Review Research
Physical Review Accelerators and Beams
Physical Review Applied
Physical Review Fluids
Physical Review Materials
Physical Review Physics Education Research
Physical Review
Physical Review (Series I)
Physics Physique Fizika
Physics Magazine
Help/Feedback
Log in
PHYSICAL REVIEW B
covering condensed matter and materials physics
Highlights
Recent
Accepted
Collections
Authors
Referees
Search
Press
About
Editorial Team
Go Mobile »
Access by Tianjin University
Photoelectron spectroscopy studies of growth, alloying, and segregation for transition-metal films on tungsten (211)
J. J. Kolodziej, T. E. Madey, J. W. Keister, and J. E Rowe
Phys. Rev. B 62, 5150 – Published 15 August 2000
More
Article
References
Citing Articles (31)
PDFExport Citation
ABSTRACT
High resolution soft x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation and Auger-electron spectroscopy are used to study late-transition-metal films (Pt, Pd, Ir, Rh, Au,) on W(211). It is found that the films grow in a layer mode at 300 K. As a function of the film thickness, different
4
f
7
/
2
photoemission peaks are observed, corresponding to a single monolayer, to an interface layer, to bulk atoms and to surface atoms. Single physical monolayers of these late-transition metals on tungsten are stable against thermal rearrangement. In contrast, when multilayer films of Pd, Pt, Ir, Rh are annealed above 700–1000 K, tungsten atoms diffuse into the overlayer to form an alloy film. Gold constitutes a different case; upon annealing it does not alloy with tungsten but the metal in excess of one monolayer forms clusters. The evolution of the bimetallic systems as a function of coverage and annealing temperature is interpreted by analysis of intensities and shapes of the
4
f
7
/
2
features. Born-Haber cycles and the equivalent core approximation are used to extract thermochemical data concerning energetics of adhesion, segregation, and alloying in these early-late transition-metal systems.
Received 28 June 1999
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.62.5150
©2000 American Physical Society
AUTHORS & AFFILIATIONS
J. J. Kolodziej* and T. E. Madey†
The Department of Physics and Astronomy and Laboratory for Surface Modification, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-8019
J. W. Keister and J. E Rowe
Physics Department, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina 27695
*Present address: Instytut Fizyki, Uniwersytet Jagiellonski, Reymonta 4, 30-059 Krakow, Poland.
†Corresponding author. Email: madey@physics.rutgers.edu
REFERENCES
CLICK TO EXPAND
Issue
Vol. 62, Iss. 8 — 15 August 2000
Reuse & Permissions
Sign up to receive regular email alerts from Physical Review B
Sign up
APS
Earlier Issues
News & Announcements
About this Journal
Editorial Team
About the Journals
Join APS
AUTHORS
General Information
Submit a Manuscript
Publication Rights
Open Access
Policies & Practices
Tips for Authors
Professional Conduct
REFEREES
General Information
Submit a Report
Update Your Information
Policies & Practices
Referee FAQ
Guidelines for Referees
Outstanding Referees
LIBRARIANS
General Information
Subscriptions
Online License Agreement
Usage Statistics
Your Account
STUDENTS
Physics
PhysicsCentral
Student Membership
APS MEMBERS
Subscriptions
Article Packs
Membership
FAQ
APS News
Meetings & Events
Privacy
Policies
Contact Information
Feedback
ISSN 2469-9969 (online), 2469-9950 (print). ©2024 American Physical Society. All rights reserved. Physical Review B™ is a trademark of the American Physical Society, registered in the United States, Canada, European Union, and Japan. The APS Physics logo and Physics logo are trademarks of the American Physical Society. Information about registration may be found here. Use of the American Physical Society websites and journals implies that the user has read and agrees to our Terms and Conditions and any applicable Subscription Agreement.
This site uses cookies. To find out more, read our Privacy Policy. I Agree