<quotes>
1. "Introduction"
   "In recent years, the development of cleaner burning fuels has been of very high priority."
   "The trend towards improvement of air quality by reducing levels of tropospheric ozone, NOx and particulate matter has resulted in the proposal of stringent specifications on the aromatic and sulphur contents of gasoline and diesel fuel."
   "Applying only hydrorefining catalysts (CoMo, NiMo, NiW on Al2O3), the product quality is very dependent on the operating conditions and feedstock."
   "However, because aromatic hydrogenation is an exothermic reaction, there are thermodynamic equilibrium limitations at high temperature operation."
   "Therefore sophisticated processes, technologies and catalysts will be needed to meet these specifications."

2. "Experimental"
   "A support containing 25 wt.% of TiO2 was prepared by deposition of TiO2 on surface of silica."
   "SiO2 (Aldrich, SBET = 370 m2/g, grain size of 0.05 mm) was added to titanium(IV)isopropoxide dissolved in isopropyl alcohol."
   "The sol was gelated at room temperature."
   "Next, the samples were placed in a dryer and heated up at stepwise increased temperature: 30 C, 0.5 h; 50 C, 0.5 h; 70 C, 0.5 h; 90 C, 0.5 h; 110 C, 12 h."
   "Metals were deposited on the supports before the forming process."
   "Bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts were performed by two-step impregnation, the Pt precursor being impregnated as a second one."
   "After impregnation catalysts were peptised with 3% nitric acid and then extruded; extrudates of diameter 1.2 mm were obtained."
   "The extrudated catalysts were dried at room temperature for 24 h then the temperature was increased slowly (40 C) to 110 C at which the extrudates were heated for 12 h and next calcined for 4 h at a temperature of 450 C."

3. "Results and Discussion"
   "In Table 1 nominal and real (determined by ICP) composition of the catalysts and their BET surface area are given."
   "TOF-SIMS images of the calcined catalysts 2a and 3a (Fig. 2) confirm a good dispersion of platinum."
   "TPR profiles of the catalysts, calcined at 450 C, are presented in Fig. 3."
   "Toluene conversion, as a function of reaction temperature up to 200 C over silica and silica-titania-supported nickel, platinum and bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts is shown in Fig. 5."

4. "Conclusions"
   "Platinum promotes the reduction of NiO in the catalysts supported both on SiO2 and TiO2-SiO2."
   "Catalysts supported on TiO2-SiO2 show considerably higher catalytic activity in the toluene hydrogenation than those supported on SiO2."
   "Bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts containing ca. 0.5 wt.% Pt are more active than related monometallic platinum catalysts, containing comparable amount of platinum."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The development of cleaner burning fuels is a high priority.
2. The production of cleaner fuels requires stringent specifications on the aromatic and sulfur contents of gasoline and diesel.
3. Hydrorefining catalysts like CoMo, NiMo, NiW on Al2O3 depend on operating conditions and feedstock quality.
4. Sophisticated processes and catalysts are needed to overcome thermodynamic limitations in high-temperature operations.
5. The study involved preparing catalysts with titanium dioxide (TiO2) on silica.
6. Titanium(IV)isopropoxide was used to prepare the TiO2 support.
7. The catalysts were calcined at 450°C.
8. Platinum promoted the reduction of nickel oxide in the catalysts.
9. Catalysts supported on binary TiO2-SiO2 had higher catalytic activity in toluene hydrogenation.
10. Bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts with 0.5% platinum were more active than monometallic platinum catalysts with the same amount of platinum.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 清洁燃烧燃料的发展是一个高优先级。
2. 清洁燃料生产需要对汽油和柴油的芳香烃和硫含量提出严格要求。
3. 只有通过氢化精炼催化剂（如CoMo、NiMo、NiW）才能满足操作条件和原料质量的要求。
4. 高温操作时，复杂的工艺、技术和催化剂是必需的。
5. 研究涉及在二氧化硅上制备含有钛氧化物（TiO2）的催化剂。
6. 使用四氯化钛异丙醇溶液制备了TiO2支持体。
7. 催化剂在450°C下煅烧。
8. 铂促进了镍氧化物在催化剂中的还原。
9. 在二氧化硅和二元二氧化钛-二氧化硅支持下，催化剂在甲苯氢化反应中表现出更高的催化活性。
10. 含有0.5%铂的双金属Ni-Pt催化剂比含相同量铂的单金属铂催化剂更活跃。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
