I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Highly Selective Conversion of Carbon Dioxide to Aromatics over Tandem Catalysts Highlights • Selective conversion of CO2 to aromatics over a ZnZrO/HZSM-5 tandem catalyst
• High CO2 conversion achieved via thermodynamics coupling through CHxO intermediates
• The presence of H2O and CO2 is effective in promoting aromatics formation
• Coke formation is suppressed by H2O and CO2, improving the catalyst stability
Context & Scale In view of the depletion of fossil fuels and the increased requirements for liquid fuels and chemicals, CO2 should indeed be regarded as a valuable C1 additional feedstock to manufacture the liquid fuels and chemicals by using H2 derived from sustainable energy. Aromatics are the most important bulk chemicals in producing polymers, the demand for which increases worldwide year by year. However, the main source of aromatics is currently petroleum cracking. Here, hydrogenation of CO2 directly to the aromatics process has been performed by using tandem catalysts. A thermodynamic coupling between CO2 hydrogenation and formation of aromatics intensifies the tandem catalysis process. Moderate H2O as by-product and CO2 can facilitate the formation of aromatics. The effect of H2O and CO2 on CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics is conducive to elaborate design of reaction systems that involve zeolites as catalysts for conversion of CO2 and hydrocarbon to specific products.
Summary Conversion of CO2 to aromatics is a promising route to realize the proposal on carbon capture and utilization based on strategic CO2 carbon resource. In this work, CO2 is converted to aromatics with aromatics selectivity up to 73% at CO2 conversion of 14%, and the selectivity of CO was suppressed down to 44% over a tandem catalyst ZnZrO/ZSM-5, which was constructed by using ZnZrO solid solution and H-ZSM-5 zeolite. The selectivity of aromatics can reach to 78% at the space velocity of 1,800 mL/gcat/h. Tandem catalysis enables the direct hydrogenation of CO2 to aromatics favorable in thermodynamics through the coupling of CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO and aromatics formation over H-ZSM-5. The H2O generated through CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO can obviously increase the selectivity of aromatics and the CO2 in the reaction system promotes the formation of aromatics. Interestingly, it is found that the presence of H2O and CO2 significantly suppresses the generation of polycyclic aromatics and consequently enhances the stability of the tandem catalyst; therefore, no obvious deactivation of tandem catalysts was observed for at least 100 hr in the reaction stream.
Graphical Abstract
Download: Download high-res image (276KB) Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue Next article in issue Keywords CO2 hydrogenationaromaticstandem catalysisthermodynamic coupling Introduction Owing to the ever-increasing emission of anthropogenic CO2 into the atmosphere, CO2 being a greenhouse gas has provoked dramatic climate changes. 1 ,2 ,3 In principle, CO2 could represent an important one-carbon building block for the synthesis of high-value chemicals according to the carbon capture and utilization proposal. 4 ,5 ,6 ,7 Aromatics are the most important bulk chemicals, which can be used to produce polymers, such as polystyrene, phenolic resins, nylon, polyethyleneglycol terephthalate, polycarbonate, resins, and films, and the demand for aromatics worldwide increases year by year. 8 However, aromatics mainly derived from petroleum (naphtha) and the synthesis of aromatics from other alternatives is rarely reported. 9 ,10 The direct conversion of CO2 to aromatics is of significance because it could be a promising solution for storage of CO2 as polymer materials. However, this has remained a major challenge.
In view of the thermodynamic stability and chemical inertness of CO2, the conversion of CO2 to fuel and value-added chemicals requires the input of considerable Gibbs free energy (the Gibbs formation energy). Recently, synthesis of methanol 11 ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16 ,17 ,18 ,19 and hydrocarbon 20 ,21 ,22 ,23 ,24 ,25 ,26 ,27 through hydrogenation of CO2 utilizing the renewable hydrogen has become feasible. Nevertheless, considering the sluggish reaction kinetics of the CO2 hydrogenation and deactivation by carbon deposition, efficient and robust catalysts are highly desired for this reaction.
Methanol synthesis with high selectivity from CO2 hydrogenation has been achieved. 28 ,29 ,30 ,31 Methanol could bridge the indirect conversion pathway of CO2 to aromatics, since H-ZSM-5 zeolite shows a high catalytic performance for conversion of methanol to aromatics. 32 ,33 ,34 Previous works reported that CuZnCr/H-ZSM-5 composite catalysts were adopted to convert CO2 to hydrocarbon, the products being mainly CO (CO selectivity is >87%) and paraffins. 35 For the hydrogenation of CO2 on CuZnOZrO2/H-ZSM-5 composite catalysts, the products were also mainly CO (CO selectivity is >97%) and no obvious aromatics were obtained. Recently, although converting methanol 36 ,37 ,38 ,39 and syngas 40 ,41 ,42 to aromatics has been demonstrated as feasible, the hydrogenation of CO2 to aromatics remains rarely reported.
Based on the progress on CO2 hydrogenation to lower olefins on the ZnZrO/SAPO tandem catalysts,21 in this work we intended to achieve the synthesis of aromatics via CO2 hydrogenation. A ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst composed of ZnZrO solid solution nanoparticles dispersed highly on the surface of H-ZSM-5 micrometer crystals, taking advantage of methanol synthesis on ZnZrO 43 and aromatization of methanol on H-ZSM-5.
The direct hydrogenation of CO2 over tandem catalysts shows aromatics selectivity up to 73% at CO2 single-pass conversion of 14% and, to our surprise, the catalysts show no apparent deactivation at least for 100 hr. Based on operando infrared (IR) characterization, it is proposed that CHxO are the intermediate species transferred from the ZnZrO surface into the pore structure of H-ZSM-5, ready for C-C bond formation for aromatics production.
Results and Discussion ZnZrO solid solution oxide catalysts were prepared by doping of 13% molar ZnO into ZnZrO. ZnZrO solid solution oxide shows a typical tetragonal structure ( Figure 1 A). ZnZrO solid solution oxide is in the form of nanoparticle with a diameter of about 2030 nm ( Figure 1 B), and the Zn atom is distributed in ZrO2 homogeneously ( Figure 1 C). The tandem catalysts were fabricated by physically mixing ZnZrO solid solution oxide with H-ZSM-5 zeolite (hereafter referred to as ZnZrO/ZSM-5), which shows coffin-shaped crystals with sizes varying between 300 and 500 nm ( Figure 1 D). The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of tandem catalysts clearly shows the ZnZrO solid solution nanoparticles dispersed over the surface of H-ZSM-5 ( Figure 1 E), and the interface between ZnZrO and ZSM-5 is the physical interaction, with the two components keeping their own structure ( Figure 1
A).
Download: Download high-res image (2MB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 1. Catalyst Characterization
(A) X-ray diffraction patterns of ZnZrO, H-ZSM-5, and ZnZrO/ZSM-5.
(B) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution TEM images of ZnZrO.
(C) Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM images and elemental distribution of Zn and Zr for ZnZrO.
(D) SEM image of H-ZSM-5.
(E) SEM image and scheme of ZnZrO/ZSM-5.
Figure 2 A (left panel) shows the representative result for CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO/ZSM-5. Aromatics selectivity can be up to 73%; the selectivity of C2=-C4=, C20-C40, C5+ together with methane is 27% (for detailed distributions see Figure S1 ) at a single-pass conversion of CO2 with 14.1% under reaction conditions of 4.0 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h, and 320C, and the selectivity of CO is suppressed to 44%. The number of carbon atoms of aromatics in products range from C6 (aromatics with 6 carbon atoms) to C10 ( Figure S2 ), and the C8 aromatics are mainly xylene with trace ethylbenzene ( Figure S3 ). Recently, it was reported that the CO2 was hydrogenated to aromatics with CO2 conversion of 9.1% and selectivity of aromatics of 73.9%, while the CO selectivity was as high as 57.4%. 44 CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO produces mainly methanol and CO without producing aromatics, while H-ZSM-5 does not show any product in CO2 hydrogenation, clearly suggesting that the ZnZrO/ZSM-5 catalysts convert CO2 to aromatics.
Figure 2 A (right panel) shows the catalytic performance of ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and H-ZSM-5 catalysts for methanol conversion, which gives a similar product distribution, indicating that the aromatics are produced over the H-ZSM-5. The selectivity of aromatics for methanol conversion to aromatics (MTA) over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and H-ZSM-5 is only 30% and 32%, respectively, which is much lower than that of CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO/ZSM-5. Compared with the lower selectivity of aromatics for MTA over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and H-ZSM-5, the higher selectivity of aromatics for CO2 hydrogenation can be attributed to the different reaction system of CO2 hydrogenation, which can facilitate the production of aromatics over tandem catalysis under this reaction condition.
Download: Download high-res image (1MB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 2. Catalytic Performance in CO2 Hydrogenation
(A) CO2 hydrogenation on ZnZrO/ZSM-5 (H-ZSM-5 with Si/Al ratio of 100) and ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5, and methanol conversion on ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and H-ZSM-5.
(B) CO2 conversion over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 (H-ZSM-5 with different Si/Al ratios), hydrocarbon distribution, and CO selectivity.
(C) Hydrocarbon distribution and CO2 conversion over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 with different space velocities.
(D) CO2 conversion over ZnZrO/ZSM-5, hydrocarbon distribution, and CO selectivity at different reaction temperatures.
Reaction conditions: ZnZrO/ZSM-5: 320C, 4 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h; ZnZrO: 320C, 4 MPa, 2,400 mL/gcat/h (A); 320C, 4 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h (B); 320C, 4 MPa (C); 4 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h (D).
It is known that the Si/Al ratio directly affects the acid property of zeolite while the aromatics formation is related to acid catalysis.
Figure 2 B shows the effect of Si/Al ratio of H-ZSM-5 on the products distribution. With increasing Si/Al ratio, the conversion of CO2 and the selectivity of CO slightly decrease, but the selectivity of aromatics reaches a maximum at an Si/Al ratio of 100.
Figure 2 C shows that the conversion of CO2 decreases with increasing space velocity, but the selectivity of aromatics increases firstly and then decreases, and the highest aromatics selectivity is 78% under 1,800 mL/gcat/h. In addition, with increasing space velocity, the selectivity of lower olefins increases gradually but the selectivity of lower paraffins decreases, indicating that lower olefins yielded in H-ZSM-5 prefer to escape from the pore of H-ZSM-5 and not convert to paraffins with higher space velocity. Interestingly, the selectivity of aromatics is related to the selectivity of lower hydrocarbons (olefins and paraffins) with changing space velocity, indicating that lower olefins are the intermediates for forming aromatics. This agrees with the common understanding that the lower olefins are the intermediates of methanol conversion to aromatics, which was formed through oligomerization, hydrogen transfer, and dehydrogenation of olefins in the pore of H-ZSM-5. 33 ,40 ,45
With increasing reaction temperature, the conversion of CO2 increases but the selectivity of aromatics decreases ( Figure 2 D). This is probably because the reverse water-gas shift reaction is favorable in thermodynamics at higher reaction temperatures, so CO production becomes dominant at high reaction temperatures. Simultaneously, hydrogen transfer and methylation reaction of lower olefins could also be facilitated at high reaction temperatures, and the selectivity of lower alkane and C5+ obviously increases with increasing reaction temperature.
To clarify the roles of tandem catalysis, we compared the catalytic performance of the tandem catalysts with integrated catalysts that consisted of two individual catalysts in different proximities in a tubular fixed bed reactor. When ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 were mixed in granule form (200450 μm), aromatics selectivity decreased sharply from 73% to 21% ( Figure 3 A, II). Similar results were obtained when some quartz sand particulates (200450 μm) were mixed with the two component particulates ( Figure 3 A, III) and the ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 particulates were separated in space by a quartz sand layer ( Figure 3 A, IV). These results prove that the spatial separation between ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 can obviously affect the conversion of CO2 and the selectivity of aromatics, suggesting that the formation of aromatics is due to the efficient synergy between the two components ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5, and the intimately spatial contact of ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 promote the transfer of intermediates from the surface of ZnZrO to the pore structure of H-ZSM-5 to improve the conversion of CO2 and the selectivity of aromatics for CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst. Upon increasing the spatial distance between ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 ( Figure 3 A, II and III), the transfer of intermediates becomes difficult. Considering the spatial separation between ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 by a quartz sand layer ( Figure 3 A, IV), methanol is the intermediate that desorbed from the surface of ZnZrO and then diffused into pore structure. The high selectivity of aromatics over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst indicates the presence of other intermediates, different from methanol, which is transferred from the surface of ZnZrO to the pore structure of H-ZSM-5. The different selectivity of aromatics for four constitutions of catalysts ( Figure 3 A) indicates that the intermediates transferred from the surface to the pore structure of H-ZSM-5 are different.
Download: Download high-res image (408KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 3. Tandem Reaction Coupling
(A) Hydrogenation of CO2 over ZnZrO/ZSM-5, integrated catalyst components ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 with different proximity (1.0 g, 320C, 4.0 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h).
(B) Hydrogenation of CO2 over ZnZrO and ZnZrO/ZSM-5 at reaction temperatures of 280C360C (0.5 g, 4 MPa, 2,400 mL/gcat/h for ZnZrO; 1.0 g, 4 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h for ZnZrO/ZSM-5).
Figure 3 B shows the catalytic activity of CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO and ZnZrO/ZSM-5. The fact that the conversion of CO2 over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 is higher than that over ZnZrO and, interestingly, the space-time yield of methanol estimated from hydrocarbon products (presumably the hydrocarbons are derived from methanol) is much higher for ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst than for ZnZrO alone with increasing reaction temperature, indicates that the conversion of CO2 to aromatics is not a simple sum of two reactions over two separate catalysts (CO2 hydrogenation to methanol over ZnZrO and methanol conversion to aromatics over H-ZSM-5) but a tandem reaction. This confirms that the reaction equilibrium of methanol synthesis over ZnZrO can be shifted by the subsequent reaction of methanol conversion to aromatics over H-ZSM-5.
In thermodynamics, the CO2 hydrogenation to methanol is unfavorable , but conversion of methanol to aromatics is very favorable (methanol to xylene,), and the coupling of these two reactions, hydrogenation of CO2 to aromatics, is favorable (CO2 hydrogenation to xylene,) ( Figure S4 ), indicating that the thermodynamic coupling of the two reaction becomes effective in the tandem catalysis, and this thermodynamic coupling effect can only be efficient when the two components of tandem catalysts are in proximate contact.
To further understand the reaction mechanism of the ZnZrO/ZSM-5 catalyst, we detected the surface species formed on ZnZrO by in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) ( Figure 4 A) and quantitatively analyzed them using a chemical trapping-mass spectrometry method. HCOO* (2,980, 2,880, and 2,735 cm1) and CH3O* (2,930 and 2,824 cm1) species are distinctly observed for ZnZrO under reaction conditions. 46 In addition, the chemical trapping results show mass signals of HCOOCD3, CD3CHO, and CH3OCD3 (derived from HCOO*, CHO*, and CH3O* species, respectively) ( Figure 4 B), suggesting that the HCOO*, CHO*, and CH3O* species are involved in the CO2 hydrogenation reaction on ZnZrO catalyst. However, compared with the IR intensity of CH3O* species over ZnZrO, it becomes much weaker over ZnZrO/ZSM-5, implying that the CH3O* species generated over ZnZrO more likely transfer onto H-ZSM-5. The CHxO species, such as CH3O*, can react with amines through methylation. 47 ,48 ,49 For in situ capture of the CHxO species, SBA-15 functioned by -NH2 group (denoted NH2-SBA) was prepared by heat treatment of SBA-15 using NH3 under high temperature. ZnZrO/NH2-SBA catalyst was constructed by using NH2-SBA to replace H-ZSM-5. The peaks of the NH2 groups centered at 1,550 and 3,381 cm1 can be obviously observed in IR. 50 ,51 It is interesting that the intensity of NH2 species of ZnZrO/NH2-SBA catalyst become weak and the new species appear, centered at 1,460 (inset in Figure 4 C), 2,852, 2,954, and 2,983 cm1, which can be attributed to the formation of N-CH3 species on NH2-SBA through CO2 hydrogenation under reaction conditions. 50 ,51 ,52 When NH2-SBA was treated using methanol under reaction conditions, the N-CH3 species were also identified over NH2-SBA. These results proposed the transfer of CHxO species (mainly surface CH3O*, CHO* species, and gas-phase CH3OH) from the surface of ZnZrO onto NH2-SBA, because N-CH3 species was produced through the reaction of CH3O*, CHO*, and methanol species with the -NH2 group. Therefore, the CHxO species are the main intermediates that transferred from the surface of ZnZrO to pore structure of H-ZSM-5 over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalysts ( Figure 3 A, I), which is the reason why the tandem catalyst shows the highest aromatics selectivity in four types of catalyst ( Figure 3
A).
Download: Download high-res image (883KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 4. Reaction Intermediate Species
(A) In situ DRIFT spectra from CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO and ZnZrO/ZSM-5 at different temperatures.
(B) Chemical trapping mass spectrometry results in a trapping reagent CD3OD during the CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO at reaction temperatures of 320C.
(C) IR spectra for SBA-15, NH2-SBA-15, ZnZrO/NH2-SBA, and ZnZrO/NH2-SBA after performing CO2 hydrogenation reaction and ZnZrO/NH2-SBA after performing methanol reaction.
(D) IGA results of H-ZSM-5 for conversion of methanol to aromatics and ZnZrO/ZSM-5 for hydrogenation of CO2 to aromatics.
(E) Mass spectrometry results for CO2 hydrogenation to hydrocarbon.
(F) Mass spectrometry results for methanol conversion to hydrocarbon.
Reaction conditions: in (A) and (B) 0.1 MPa, 3,600 mL/gcat/h; in (C) to (F) 320C, 3,600 mL/gcat/h.
In the next step, we aim to understand the conversion of CHxO species over H-ZSM-5. Intelligent gravimetric analysis (IGA)-mass spectrometry was used to detect the weight change of catalyst and the formation of products under reaction conditions ( Figure 4 D). The weight of H-ZSM-5 and ZnZrO/ZSM-5 increases at the beginning of the reaction, and the increasing rate of H-ZSM-5 is faster than that of ZnZrO/ZSM-5. The weight of H-ZSM-5 quickly reached the steady state in comparison with ZnZrO/ZSM-5. The signals of mass spectrometry for CO2 hydrogenation show that ethene, propane, and methanol appear firstly and gradually increase, and the aromatics appear after 10 min ( Figure 4 E). Ethene, propane, and methanol are shown firstly for methanol conversion, but ethene quickly reaches the maximum and then rapidly decreases until about 30 min ( Figure 4 F), and thereafter the aromatics species form. In addition, the olefin conversion to aromatics for CO2 hydrogenation is faster than that for methanol conversion, which corresponded with the results showing that the CHxO species and not methanol are the main intermediates over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst. These results indicate that both CO2 hydrogenation and methanol conversion can firstly produce olefins, after which the olefins convert to aromatics.
It is demonstrated that aromatics are produced through CO2 hydrogenation over the tandem catalyst ZnZrO/ZSM-5; however, the selectivity of aromatics is much higher than that for methanol conversion to aromatics over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and H-ZSM-5. A significant feature for CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics is the production of H2O. To clearly understand the effect of H2O on the selectivity of aromatics, we selected ethene as a probe molecule with different content of H2O as feedstocks for aromatics synthesis over H-ZSM-5.
Figure 5 A shows the hydrocarbon distribution for ethene conversion with different content of H2O over H-ZSM-5 catalyst. The selectivity of aromatics can reach to 36% with ethene fed as single feedstock. When H2O and ethene co-feed, the selectivity of aromatics significantly increases to a maximum of up to 65%; with further increase in the content of H2O in feedstock, the selectivity of aromatics decreases, indicating that the moderate H2O content in feedstock can facilitate the conversion of lower olefins to aromatics. H2O and ethene prefer to adsorb on the weak acid sites, and especially the adsorption of ethene on the weak acid sites is significant ( Figures 5 B and
S5
). However, once the H2O is adsorbed on H-ZSM-5, the adsorption of ethene can be obviously suppressed ( Figure 5 B); the adsorption content of ethene on H-ZSM-5 decreases from 57.1 μmol/g (H-ZSM-5 without adsorbing any species) to 12.6 μmol/g (H-ZSM-5 with pre-adsorption of H2O) ( Figure S6 ). This indicated that the presence of H2O in H-ZSM-5 can significantly suppress the adsorption of ethene on the weak acid sites, which could facilitate the conversion of ethene to aromatics on the strong acid sites.
Download: Download high-res image (563KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 5. The Effect of H2O on CO2 Hydrogenation to Aromatics
(A) Ethene conversion over H-ZSM-5 with co-feeding different content of H2O (0.5 g, 320C, 4.0 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h).
(B) The normalized content of strong and weak acid sites for H-ZSM-5 with different treatment (a, the pristine H-ZSM-5; b, with pre-adsorption H2O at room temperature; c, with pre-adsorption of ethene; d, with adsorption of ethene after adsorption of H2O).
CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 with different H2/CO2 molar ratio was investigated. By increasing the H2/CO2 molar ratio, the selectivity of aromatics slightly decreases ( Figure 6 A), suggesting that the H2 in the feedstock affects the selectivity of aromatics. To understand the influence of H2 on aromatics formation, we tested methanol and ethene conversion to aromatics over H-ZSM-5. The selectivity of aromatics for methanol and ethene conversion over H-ZSM-5 is 32% and 34%, respectively ( Figure 6 B). Upon adding H2 to the feedstock of methanol and ethene, the selectivity of aromatics clearly decreases, indicating that H2 can suppress the formation of aromatics in H-ZSM-5. The removal of hydrogen species produced in dehydrogenation of olefins over H-ZSM-5 is assuredly the rate-limiting step for the formation of aromatics from olefins on H-ZSM-5. 40 ,53 Therefore, adding of H2 to feedstock of methanol or ethene can restrain the dehydrogenation of lower olefins, which leads to the suppression of the aromatics formation. However, the aromatics selectivity of CO2 hydrogenation is up to 73% over ZnZrO/ZSM-5, which indicates that CO2 can also facilitate the formation of aromatics by eliminating the effect of H2 on dehydrogenation of olefins. It is proposed that hydrogen species generated through dehydrogenation of olefins over H-ZSM-5 can migrate to the interface and be involved in the reaction of CO2 hydrogenation on the surface of ZnZrO. To confirm this speculation, we carried out ethene conversion over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 and fed 13CO2 into this reaction system after ethene conversion was stable. After the feeding of 13CO2 new mass signals can be detected, which can be proposed as being due to 13CH3OH species involve in the 13CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO ( Figure 6
C).
Download: Download high-res image (701KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 6. The Effect of H2 on CO2 Hydrogenation to Aromatics and 13CO2 Isotope Experiment
(A) CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 with different CO2/H2 ratios.
(B) Methanol and ethene conversion to aromatics over H-ZSM-5 under different atmospheres. I: methanol conversion over H-ZSM-5 under Ar; II: methanol conversion over H-ZSM-5 under 50% Ar and 50% H2; III: ethene conversion over H-ZSM-5 under Ar; IV: ethene conversion over H-ZSM-5 under 40% Ar and 50% H2 (catalyst: H-ZSM-5 0.5 g; reaction conditions: 320C, 20 mL/min, 4.0 MPa).
(C) Mass spectrometry results upon introducing 13CO2 during the ethene conversion over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 at reaction temperature of 320C (0.1 MPa).
The tandem catalysts show no obvious deactivation under reaction conditions for 100 hr ( Figure 7 A), and the stability is much higher than that of traditional MTA catalysts, most of which suffer from the fast deactivation. 29 ,36 To reveal the reason for high stability of ZnZrO/ZSM-5 tandem catalyst, we collected and analyzed the retained species over used ZnZrO/ZSM-5 for CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics and H-ZSM-5 for MTA. The main components from the catalyst for MTA are pentamethylbenzenes, hexamethylbenzenes, polyaromatics, and trace tetramethylbenzenes ( Figure 7 B). It is worthwhile noting that polycyclic aromatics have been hardly detected and tetramethylbenzenes appear as main species accompanying pentamethylbenzenes and hexamethylbenzenes from the catalysts for CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics ( Figure 7 B). It is well known that the polycyclic aromatics are the key species, which result in the deactivation of H-ZSM-5 in methanol conversion to aromatics. 54 ,55 ,56 ,57 Therefore, due to the presence of CO2 and H2O in the CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics, the surface intermediate species derived from CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics are very different from those from MTA. An important feature is that the formation of polycyclic aromatics in H-ZSM-5 is significantly suppressed in CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics over ZnZrO/ZSM-5 catalysts. The polycyclic aromatics have been proved to be the precursor for coke formation, which causes the deactivation of most zeolite catalysts in hydrocarbon conversion. In addition, the tandem catalysts show good stability, still retaining their individual structure without obvious changes after reaction, and the ZnZrO nanoparticles are still dispersed on the surface of H-ZSM-5 ( Figures S7 and
S8
).
Download: Download high-res image (568KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 7. Stability of Tandem Catalysts and the Retained Species over Catalysts on CO2 Hydrogenation to Aromatics and Methanol Conversion to Aromatics
(A) Stability test for ZnZrO/ZSM-5. Reaction conditions of CO2 hydrogenation for ZnZrO/ZSM-5: 1.0 g, 320C, 4.0 MPa, 1,200 mL/gcat/h.
(B) The chromatogram result of the retained species for methanol conversion to aromatics and CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics.
Therefore, on the basis of the understanding of CO2 hydrogenation to aromatics, it is proposed that the tandem reaction proceeds as follows: (1) the CHxO species is generated on the surface of ZnZrO through CO2 hydrogenation; (2) CHxO species migrate/transfer onto H-ZSM-5 catalyst; (3) CHxO species convert to lower olefins firstly, then lower olefins convert to aromatics; (4) H2O produced through CO2 hydrogenation on ZnZrO and CO2 in the reaction system facilitate the aromatization of lower olefins; (5) the presence of H2O and CO2 significantly alleviates the deactivation of catalyst by suppressing the formation of polycyclic aromatics ( Figure 8 ).
Download: Download high-res image (246KB) Download: Download full-size image Figure 8. Schematic for the Proposed Reaction Mechanism of CO2 Hydrogenation on the Tandem Catalyst, ZnZrO/ZSM-5
Conclusions In summary, this work achieves the hydrogenation of CO2 to aromatics over tandem catalyst ZnZrO/ZSM-5. The single-pass conversion of CO2 reaches 14% with aromatics selectivity up to 73%. Tandem catalyst ZnZrO/ZSM-5 favors the thermodynamic coupling between CO2 hydrogenation over ZnZrO and formation of aromatics over H-ZSM-5 through the transfer of CHxO intermediates from the surface of ZnZrO to the pore structure of H-ZSM-5. We found that the H2O produced over ZnZrO through CO2 hydrogenation and CO2 in the reaction system can promote the formation of aromatics. The presence of CO2 and H2O in H-ZSM-5 suppressed the production of polycyclic aromatics, resulting in excellent stability of the tandem catalyst, thus making this catalyst potentially feasible for application in industry.
Experimental Procedures Catalyst Preparation The ZnZrO catalyst that doped 13% ZnO (Zn/(Zn + Zr) molar ratio) was prepared as follows. 18.11 g of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O and 172.88 g of Zr(NO3)4·5H2O were dissolved in a flask by using 600 mL of deionized water, then the 500-mL aqueous solution of (NH4)2CO3 (53.35 g) as precipitant was dropwise added into the aforementioned solution under vigorous stirring at 70C to form a precipitate. The obtained suspension was continuously stirred for 2 hr at 70C, followed by cooling down to room temperature and filtering. The precipitate was washed three times with deionized water, dried at 110C for 4 hr, and calcined at 500C in static air for 3 hr.
Zeolite H-ZSM-5 samples with different Si/Al molar ratios were purchased from Nankai University Catalyst. Typically, H-ZSM-5 with a Si/Al ratio of 100 was used unless otherwise mentioned.
Preparation of Bifunctional Catalyst The bifunctional catalyst was typically prepared by physical mixing the two components, and the mass ratio of the two components (ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5) was fixed at 1:1 in this work. For the preparation of the ZnZrO/H-ZSM-5 composed of mixed granules, the powder of ZnZrO and H-ZSM-5 was preliminarily pressed, crushed, and sieved to granules of 4080 mesh (size 200450 μm), respectively. The granules of the two samples were then simply mixed together by shaking in a vessel.
Catalyst Characterization Details of catalyst characterization are provided in Supplemental Information .
Catalyst Evaluation Details of catalyst evaluation are provided in Supplemental Information . The calculated methods of conversion of CO2 (X(CO2)) and the selectivity of CO (S(CO)) and hydrocarbon (S(CnHm)) are as follows.
X(CO2), S(CO), and S(CnHm) were calculated using an internal normalization method from the following equations:where f is relative mole correction factor and A is peak area on chromatographic spectra. where i is internal normalization conversion coefficient.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the concept of tandem catalysis at the nanoscale address the challenges of integrating multiple reaction steps in chemical engineering processes, and what are its potential implications for energy efficiency and process optimization, as exemplified by the In2O3-Pt/Al2O3 catalyst for coupling catalytic propane dehydrogenation with selective H2 combustion?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 