<quotes>
[1] "Ligand-stabilized organometallic cluster precursors have been used to prepare highly dispersed bimetallic catalysts that are active in alkane conversion reactions."
[2] "The DRIFTS spectrum of carbon monoxide adsorbed to this catalyst contains a very broad and asymmetric peak associated with CO bound to Pt."
[3] "One possible interpretation of this peak is that it results from overlapping linear PtCO stretches and lower energy CO stretches from bridging or semibridging modes between Pt and Cu."
[4] "Differences in activity for skeletal rearrangements can be explained in terms of the cyclic mechanism of isomerization and support the characterization data that very small and bimetallic particles are prepared using the cluster precursors."
[5] "Both of the cluster-derived catalysts have very similar light hydrocarbon distribution patterns and favor internal rather than terminal bond scission."
[6] "At the same time, the 0.15-Pt2Au4 catalyst has significantly enhanced resistance to deactivation processes relative to the 0.15-Pt2Cu4 catalyst and a traditionally prepared Pt catalyst."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Ligand-stabilized organometallic cluster precursors have been utilized to create highly dispersed bimetallic catalysts that are effective in alkane conversion reactions.
2. The DRIFTS spectrum of carbon monoxide adsorbed to this catalyst includes a broad and asymmetric peak attributed to CO bound to Pt.
3. This broad peak might be interpreted as resulting from overlapping linear PtCO stretches and lower energy CO stretches from bridging or semibridging modes between Pt and Cu.
4. The differences in activity for skeletal rearrangements can be explained by the cyclic mechanism of isomerization, supporting the characterization data that very small and bimetallic particles are prepared using the cluster precursors.
5. Both of the cluster-derived catalysts exhibit similar patterns in the distribution of light hydrocarbons and prefer internal over terminal bond scission.
6. Meanwhile, the 0.15-Pt2Au4 catalyst demonstrates significantly improved resistance to deactivation processes compared to the 0.15-Pt2Cu4 catalyst and a traditionally prepared Pt catalyst.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1.X公司利用配体稳定化的有机金属簇前体制备了在烷烃转化反应中活性较高的双金属催化剂。
2.此催化剂上吸附的CO的DRIFTS光谱包含一个宽泛且不对称的峰，归因于Pt上的CO结合。
3.这个宽峰可能解释为重叠的线性PtCO伸展和从Pt与Cu之间的桥接或半桥接模式产生的较低能量CO伸展。
4.骨架重组活动差异可以用异构化循环机制来解释，并支持表征数据，即使用簇前体制备了非常小且双金属的颗粒。
5.两个簇衍生催化剂在轻烃分布模式上非常相似，并倾向于内部而不是终端键断裂。
6.同时，0.15-Pt2Au4催化剂在去活化过程中表现出显著优于0.15-Pt2Cu4催化剂和传统Pt催化剂的抗去活化性能。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
