<quotes>

[1] "The data presented in this review show that the vibrational spectroscopy of simple basic molecules adsorbed on Brnsted and Lewis sites gives an invaluable help for the evaluation of the acid strength of sites located on internal and external surfaces of zeolitic systems and oxides."
[2] "The perturbation induced on the n(OH) modes of the Brnsted sites by the interaction with basic molecules is analogous to that observed for the same interactions in homo- geneous conditions."
[3] "Comparison with the immense literature concerning the IR spectra of acidbase adducts in solution, has also allowed to estimate the relative role played by the local structure and by the shape of the cages in determining the acid strength of Brnsted sites."
[4] "The acid base perturbation is not only influencing the vibrational modes of the adsorbing sites but is also influencing the internal modes of the basic probes."
[5] "From this perturbation a second spectroscopic method for acid strength evaluation has been obtained which is particularly useful for Lewis sites either present on internal surfaces of cavities or on external positions."
[6] "The great importance of IR spectroscopy of hydrogen molecule used as probe of acidity is also emerging clearly from this review."
[7] "The utility of the spectroscopic methods for the acid strength evaluation have also been tested and proved for fluxional acidic systems such as heteropolyacids and NAFION membranes."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The vibrational spectroscopy of simple basic molecules on Brnsted and Lewis sites aids in evaluating the acid strength of sites on zeolitic systems and oxides surfaces. 
2. The interaction perturbs n(OH) modes of Brnsted sites similarly to homogeneous conditions.
3. Comparisons with literature on acid-base adducts in solution estimate the role of local structure and cage shape in Brnsted site acidity.
4. Acid-base perturbation affects both adsorbing site vibrations and basic probe internal modes.
5. A second spectroscopic method for acid strength evaluation has been derived, particularly useful for Lewis sites in cavities or on external surfaces.
6. IR spectroscopy of hydrogen as an acidity probe highlights its importance.
7. Spectroscopic methods for acid strength evaluation have been proven effective in fluxional acidic systems like heteropolyacids and NAFION membranes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 振动光谱学中简单碱性分子在Brnsted和Lewis位点的存在，为评估位于沸石体系和氧化物表面的酸强度提供了宝贵帮助。
2. 这种相互作用与在均相条件下的观察到的相似地影响着n(OH)模式的Brnsted位点。
3. 将文献中溶液中酸碱缔合物的红外光谱进行比较，允许估计局部结构和笼子形状在确定Brnsted位点酸性中的相对作用。
4. 酸碱扰动不仅影响吸附位点的振动模式，还影响基本探针的内部模式。
5. 从这种扰动中获得的第二种酸强度评估方法，特别是对存在在腔室内部表面或外部位置的Lewis位点特别有用。
6. 红外光谱学中氢作为酸度探针的重要性得到明确体现。
7. 在多变酸性系统如杂多酸和NAFION膜中，光谱方法用于评估酸强度的有效性已经得到验证。
