<quotes>
[1] "The primary objective of the work presented in this paper is to correlate the effects of Pt:Ni atomic ratio and impregnation sequence with the extent of PtNi bimetallic bond formation and with the low-temperature hydrogenation activity of benzene and 1,3-butadiene."
[2] "In order to study the effects of these two series of catalysts on the hydrogenation of conjugated systems, benzene and 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation were chosen as probe reactions because they serve both fundamental and practical purposes."
[3] "As seen in several of the images in Fig. 2, several larger particles are also present in all of the catalysts, which are the reason for the wide standard deviations in particle size shown in Table 3."
[4] "Based on the evidence from the XANES and EXAFS of the reduced samples discussed above, PtO peaks disappear and PtM (M = Pt or Ni) peaks appear at slightly larger values of R."
[5] "In all five of the bimetallic catalysts, the ratio of PtPt to PtNi coordination numbers is larger than the atomic ratios of Pt:Ni."
[6] "This work does not include an analysis of the selectivity of the catalysts, but the production and consumption of 1-butene and the production of n-butane are shown in Fig. 8, Fig. 9 and Fig. 8, Fig. 9, respectively."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The main goal of the research outlined in this paper is to establish a connection between the Pt:Ni atomic ratio and the sequence of impregnation, and the formation of PtNi bimetallic bonds, as well as the low-temperature hydrogenation capability of benzene and 1,3-butadiene.

2. The researchers chose benzene and 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation as model reactions to investigate the impact of various catalyst properties on the hydrogenation of conjugated systems due to their importance in both fundamental and practical contexts.

3. The presence of larger particles in the catalysts, as depicted in Fig. 2, contributes to the variability in particle size measurements observed in Table 3.

4. The disappearance of PtO peaks and the appearance of PtM (where M is either Pt or Ni) peaks at slightly larger radial distances in the Pt LIII-edge XANES spectra, as indicated by the disappearance of PtO peaks and the appearance of PtM peaks, suggest that the Pt atoms have been reduced.

5. In the five bimetallic catalysts examined, the ratio of Pt-Pt coordination numbers to PtNi coordination numbers is greater than the atomic ratio of Pt to Ni.

6. The study does not delve into the selectivity of the catalysts, but it does illustrate the consumption of 1,3-butadiene, the production and consumption of 1-butene, and the production of n-butane in Fig. 8, Fig. 9 and Fig. 8, Fig. 9 respectively.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 本文研究的主要目的是，通过Pt：Ni原子比和浸渍顺序，与PtNi双金属键形成程度以及低温度苯和1,3-丁二烯氢化活性之间的关系进行相关性分析。

2. 由于苯和1,3-丁二烯氢化在理论和实践上都具有重要意义，因此被选作研究双金属催化剂对共轭系统氢化的模型反应，以探讨不同催化剂性质的影响。

3. 图2中显示的较大颗粒的存在是导致表3中颗粒尺寸测量结果偏差较大的原因。

4. 在Pt LIII边XANES光谱中，PtO峰消失，出现PtM（M为Pt或Ni）峰，并且峰值位于稍大的径向距离处，表明Pt原子已经被还原。

5. 在所有五个双金属催化剂中，Pt-Pt协调数与PtNi协调数的比例大于Pt到Ni的原子比例。

6. 研究并未深入探讨催化剂的选择性，但在图8、图9和图8、图9中分别展示了1,3-丁二烯的消耗、1-丁烯的生产和消耗，以及n-丁烷的产生。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
