<example>
        <English> 
                The potential and challenges of sulfur-based alternative oxidants in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) for propylene production have been elucidated in the literature \[10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_10\]. Sulfur-based oxidants, such as H2S, S2, and SO2, have demonstrated the ability to enhance propylene yield compared to conventional oxidants. SO2, in particular, has been shown to be effective in the selective oxidation of propane to propylene, with the formation of oxidative condensation products (OCP) on the catalyst surface selectively accelerating the interaction of propane with SO2 \[10.1016/S0167-2991(08)60185-8\]. However, the use of SO2 as an oxidant results in low propylene yield due to the formation of COx products over bulk metal oxide catalysts. The use of a soft oxidant like S2 can reduce the overoxidation of propane over ZrO2. A major challenge in designing efficient catalysts for S2ODHP is the formation of byproducts such as CS2. Future research should focus on developing a structure-activity relationship to rationally design catalysts in this field. The role of sulfur as a promoter or inhibitor is well studied in hydrogenation reactions, and sulfur compounds like S2 and H2S have been used as cocatalysts to reduce overoxidation during oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Shorter residence times are required to suppress the cracking reaction, and sulfur in the diatomic state may abstract hydrogen from an alkane. The presence of S2 improves C3H6 yield and selectivity, but the conversion is barely affected by the catalysts, indicating the dominance of gas-phase reactions. Sulfur-based byproducts like CS2 are observed in the reactor effluent. The apparent activation barrier for propylene formation decreases with lower metal-sulfur bond strength, indicating a more active sulfur species. CH activation proceeds by a surface sulfur species, and propylene and H2S formation leads to sulfur vacancy, which is replenished by gas phase S2.
                ※※※
                Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Considering the advancements and findings discussed in the literature, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on the development of novel catalysts that can mitigate the formation of COx products when using SO2 as an oxidant, thereby improving propylene yield. The exploration of S2 as a soft oxidant could be expanded to understand its role in reducing overoxidation over different metal oxide supports. Developing a structure-activity relationship for S2ODHP could lead to the rational design of catalysts that minimize the formation of byproducts such as CS2. The use of sulfur compounds like H2S and S2 as cocatalysts could be further investigated to reduce overoxidation during oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Shorter residence times and the role of sulfur in the diatomic state in abstracting hydrogen from alkanes could be optimized to enhance propylene yield. The observation of sulfur-based byproducts in the reactor effluent suggests the need for catalysts that can efficiently manage sulfur vacancy and replenishment. The decrease in the apparent activation barrier for propylene formation with lower metal-sulfur bond strength indicates the potential for developing more active sulfur species. CH activation by a surface sulfur species could be further explored to improve the selectivity towards propylene formation. The dominance of gas-phase reactions in the presence of S2 suggests the need for catalysts that can effectively interact with gas-phase reactants. The replenishment of sulfur vacancy by gas phase S2 could be optimized to enhance the overall efficiency of the ODHP process.
        </English>
        <Chinese> 
                硫基替代氧化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）制丙烯生产中的潜力和挑战已在文献中阐明\[10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_10\]。硫基氧化剂，如H2S、S2和SO2，已显示出与传统氧化剂相比提高丙烯产量的能力。特别是SO2，在丙烷选择性氧化为丙烯方面表现出有效性，通过在催化剂表面形成氧化缩合产物（OCP）选择性地加速丙烷与SO2的相互作用\[10.1016/S0167-2991(08)60185-8\]。然而，使用SO2作为氧化剂会导致丙烯产量较低，因为会在块体金属氧化物催化剂上形成COx产物。使用像S2这样的软氧化剂可以减少ZrO2上的丙烷过度氧化。设计高效S2ODHP催化剂的一个主要挑战是形成如CS2等副产品。未来的研究应集中在开发结构-活性关系，以合理设计该领域的催化剂。硫作为促进剂或抑制剂的作用在氢化反应中得到了广泛研究，硫化合物如S2和H2S已被用作共催化剂，以减少氧化脱氢反应中的过度氧化。需要更短的停留时间来抑制裂解反应，而二原子状态的硫可能从烷烃中抽象出氢。S2的存在提高了C3H6的产量和选择性，但催化剂几乎不影响转化率，这表明气相反应的主导地位。在反应器流出物中观察到如CS2等硫基副产品。丙烯形成的表观活化能障碍随着金属-硫键强度的降低而降低，表明更活跃的硫物种。CH活化通过表面硫物种进行，丙烯和H2S的形成导致硫空位，这由气相S2补充。
                ※※※
                综合理解与未来展望：考虑到文献中讨论的进展和发现，有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究工作可能集中在开发能够缓解使用SO2作为氧化剂时COx产物形成的新催化剂，从而提高丙烯产量。可以扩展对S2作为软氧化剂的研究，以了解其在不同金属氧化物支撑物上减少过度氧化的作用。为S2ODHP开发结构-活性关系可能导致设计能够最小化如CS2等副产品形成的催化剂。可以进一步研究使用硫化合物如H2S和S2作为共催化剂，以减少氧化脱氢反应中的过度氧化。可以优化更短的停留时间和二原子状态硫从烷烃中抽象氢的作用，以提高丙烯产量。在反应器流出物中观察到硫基副产品表明需要能够有效管理硫空位和补充的催化剂。金属-硫键强度降低时丙烯形成表观活化能障碍的降低表明开发更活跃硫物种的潜力。可以通过表面硫物种进行的CH活化可以进一步探索，以提高向丙烯形成的选择性。S2存在时气相反应的主导地位表明需要能够有效与气相反应物相互作用的催化剂。可以通过优化气相S2补充硫空位来提高ODHP过程的整体效率。
        </Chinese>
        <References> 
                10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_10
                10.1016/S0167-2991(08)60185-8
        </References>
</example>
