<quotes>
[1] "Indeed, if intensities of IR bands from different vibrational modes change upon adsorption in a different way, this indicates a different polarizability of chemical bonds involved in different vibrational modes."
[2] "The large shift of this band toward low-frequency indicates a very strong perturbation of adsorbed ethane. On the other hand, the very high relative intensity of this band in comparison with the other CH stretching bands indicates extremely high polarizability of the bonds involved in the corresponding vibration."
[3] "The mechanism of the unusually easy heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane could be most likely described in the following way. The initial adsorption of ethane by the coordinatively unsaturated gallium cations leads to different polarizability of different CH bonds. The highest intensity of the low-frequency CH IR stretching band points to the highest extent of polarizability of the bonds involved in the corresponding vibrations."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the use of infrared (IR) spectroscopy to analyze the activation of adsorbed hydrocarbons by Lewis acid active sites. It highlights how changes in the intensities of IR stretching bands can provide insights into the polarization of the chemical bonds involved in different vibrational modes, which in turn can indicate the extent of activation and the mechanism of chemical activation. The document uses the example of ethane adsorption onto gallium oxide to demonstrate this approach, showing that the highest intensity of the low-frequency CH IR stretching band correlates with the highest extent of polarizability of the bonds involved in the corresponding vibrations, which facilitates heterolytic dissociative adsorption at elevated temperatures.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献讨论了红外光谱在分析吸附烃类分子由Lewis酸活性位点激活过程中的应用。它强调了通过IR拉伸带强度的变化可以提供不同振动模式中化学键极化性的信息，进而可以指示激活的程度和机制。文献使用了乙烷吸附到镓氧化物的例子来展示这一方法，结果显示最低频率的CH红外拉伸带强度最高的情况与对应振动模式中化学键极化性最高程度相关联，这促进了在较高温度下的异裂吸附。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
