<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          "CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Catalysts synthesized by wet impregnation method, such as CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, exhibit high catalytic activity, good selectivity, and excellent stability for PDH. The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a challenge. In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite provides a special environment for catalytic reactions, including channel confinement effects, acidic sites, and electron transfer. Acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique. The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are similar, indicating that the Cr loading has little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite. The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2, and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique. The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support are measured by XPS spectroscopy. During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature results in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation. The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process. The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is investigated in detail. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite increase propane adsorption and enhance CH bond activation. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial for PDH. Zeolites, with their high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability, and tunable acidity, can serve as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions. The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction, and only HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process. The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学品质和形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。通过湿浸渍法合成的催化剂，如CrOx在高硅HZSM-5上，SiO2/Al2O3比为260，对PDH表现出高催化活性、良好的选择性和优异的稳定性。基于HZSM-5沸石开发高效PDH催化剂，同时实现高选择性和稳定性，仍是一个挑战。在沸石支撑的催化剂中，沸石为催化反应提供了特殊的环境，包括通道限制效应、酸性位点和电子转移。沸石中的酸性位点在烷烃转化的沸石催化剂的催化性能中起着关键作用。Cr/HZSM-5催化剂中Cr物种和Brnsted酸位点的作用通过物理化学表征、PDH测试和Na+掺杂实验得以阐明。制备的CrOx催化剂的结构性质通过N2吸附技术检测。母体HZSM-5(260)和Cr/Z-5(260)样品的XRD图谱非常相似，表明Cr负载对HZSM-5沸石的晶粒结构影响很小。制备的Cr/Z-5、Cr/SiO2和Cr/Al2O3催化剂的酸性性质通过NH3-TPD技术检测。Cr物种和HZSM-5支撑之间的金属-支撑相互作用通过XPS光谱测量。在PDH测试中，高温导致催化剂上的焦炭形成，这是催化剂失活的主要原因。反应/产物分子与催化剂之间的相互作用在脱氢过程中非常重要。Cr/HZSM-5催化剂的催化性能受Cr负载量和SiO2/Al2O3比的影响进行了详细研究。Cr/HZSM-5催化剂中Cr物种和Brnsted酸位点的作用通过物理化学表征、PDH测试和Na+掺杂实验得以阐明。表征结果和Na+掺杂实验表明，Cr/HZSM-5催化剂中与Brnsted酸位点结合的Cr物种对高催化性能负责。HZSM-5沸石中的Brnsted酸位点增加了丙烷的吸附，增强了CH键的活化。HZSM-5沸石的高表面积和明确定义的孔隙为Cr物种的分散和稳定提供了特殊环境，从而确保了高催化活性和稳定性。Cr基催化剂的载体选择对PDH至关重要。沸石，具有高表面积、明确定义的通道、良好的热稳定性和可调酸度，可作为各种催化反应的催化剂或载体。HZSM-5沸石的高酸性位点对PDH反应是不利的，只有具有合适酸性位点的HZSM-5沸石才能作为CrOx催化剂的良好载体，用于PDH过程。Brnsted酸位点在确定Cr/Z-5催化剂系统的催化性能中起着重要作用。HZSM-5(260)中的Brnsted酸位点在丙烷吸附和活化中起关键作用，影响其催化性能。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
