<quotes>
[1] "Two types of platinum-alumina reforming catalysts, impregnated and cogelled, have been examined by means of HI adsorption and X-ray line-broadening techniques."
[2] "The catalysts were examined (1) fresh, (2) coked, (3) regenerated, (4) mildly sintered, (5) severely sintered and (6) reactivated after the two levels o f sintering."
[3] "Adsorption was shown to decline after coke had been deposited in a naphtha reforming reactor. A careful burn-off of the coke restored the adsorption to at least one-half of its original level."
[4] "Mild sintering, in a partial steam atmosphere, caused a large decrease in adsorption which was partially recovered after reactivation under a high pressure of oxygen."
[5] "On the other hand, sintering at one atmosphere of steam caused a decrease in adsorption which was essentially irreversible despite attempts at reactivation."
[6] "It has been of interest to this laboratory to study the nature of platinum supported on alumina, in the concentration range appropriate for a reforming catalyst."
[7] "Determination of the surface area of one component in a multiple component catalyst has been done previously by Emmett and Brunauer for iron on a promoted ammonia-synthesis catalyst, by means of carbon monoxide adsorption, and later by the same method for cobalt on kieselguhr and for nickel on aluminum oxide."
[8] "The results for this sample strongly suggest a bimodal particle-size distribution, one mode of which is invisible with the X-ray technique."
[9] "Considerations of energetics would rule out the possibility of a platinum particle of over 200 A. dissociating into 20 A. particles as might be indicated for the cogelled catalyst containing 0.30% Pt."
[10] "Effect of Coking.-It can be seen that the coke deposited on a catalyst during reforming diminishes the hydrogen adsorption sharply, but that subsequent regeneration restores it almost to the value of the fresh catalysts in most cases."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The literature discusses two types of platinum-alumina reforming catalysts: impregnated and cogelled. These catalysts were tested using HI adsorption and X-ray line-broadening techniques. The catalysts were examined in various states: fresh, coked, regenerated, mildly sintered, severely sintered, and reactivated. Adsorption was observed to decrease when coke was deposited in a naphtha reforming reactor. After a thorough burn-off of the coke, the adsorption was restored to at least half of its initial level. Mild sintering led to a significant decrease in adsorption, which was partially recovered after reactivation under high oxygen pressure. Severe sintering at one atmosphere of steam caused a decrease in adsorption that was largely irreversible despite reactivation attempts. The study aimed to understand the nature of platinum supported on alumina, particularly in the concentration range suitable for reforming catalysts. Surface area determination for catalyst components was previously conducted by Emmett and Brunauer using carbon monoxide adsorption, and later by the same method for cobalt on kieselguhr and nickel on aluminum oxide. The results for a particular sample suggested a bimodal particle-size distribution, with one mode being undetectable by X-ray techniques. The energetic considerations excluded the possibility of a platinum particle exceeding 200 A. breaking into 20 A. particles, as indicated in a cogelled catalyst with 0.30% Pt. Coking reduced hydrogen adsorption, but subsequent regeneration nearly restored it to the original level for most catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 文献探讨了两种铂铝催化剂：浸渍和胶化。这些催化剂通过HI吸附和X射线谱线展宽技术进行了测试。催化剂在新鲜、焦化、再生、轻微烧结、严重烧结和重新活化后进行了检查。发现焦炭沉积在轻烯烃重整反应器中会显著降低吸附。彻底清除焦炭后，吸附恢复到原始水平的一半以上。轻微烧结导致大量吸附下降，在高氧压下重新活化部分恢复。严重烧结在1大气压蒸汽下导致吸附量大幅减少，即使尝试重新活化也无法逆转。研究旨在了解铂在氧化铝上的支持性质，特别是在重整催化剂适用的浓度范围内。铁在促进氨合成催化剂上的表面面积测定由埃米特和布鲁纳尔先前通过一氧化碳吸附完成，并且后来通过相同方法对钴在硅藻土和镍在氧化铝上的应用。该样本结果表明存在双模颗粒尺寸分布，其中一种模式无法通过X射线技术检测。能量考虑排除了超过200 A.的铂粒子分解成20 A.粒子的可能性，这在含0.30% Pt的胶化催化剂中被指出。焦炭降低了氢吸附，但后续再生几乎完全恢复到原始水平，适用于大多数催化剂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
