<quotes>
[1] "Two types of platinum-alumina reforming catalysts, impregnated and cogelled, have been examined by means of HI adsorption and X-ray line-broadening techniques."
[2] "The catalysts were examined (1) fresh, (2) coked, (3) regenerated, (4) mildly sintered, (5) severely sintered and (6) reactivated after the two levels of sintering."
[3] "Adsorption results on fresh, sintered and reactivated catalyst are interpreted by assuming (1) the existence of two types of platinum aggregation-monolayer for impregnated catalyst, pseudo-spherical for cogelled catalyst, and (2) that Hz is adsorbed as atoms at the surface interstices between platinum atoms."
[4] "Boreskov and I<arnaukhov4 applied the technique to a lorn concentration (0.2 to 0.5%) of platinum supported on silica gel. They used hydrogen as their adsorbate."
[5] "Spenadel and Boudart5 have most recently used hydrogen adsorption to study Pt-A1203 catalysts. Their conclusions regarding Pt dispersion are in general agreement with those presented in this paper."
[6] "It is seen that there is general agreement between the two methods of determining Pt dimensions including instances where H z adsorption data indicate that the particles are too small to be lvisible in X-ray determination."
[7] "We feel that the dimensional values obtained for fresh and sintered catalyst have a real physical significance."
[8] "On the other hand, we do not believe that the results obtained on the reactivated catalysts should be taken to indicate a decreased Pt particle size."
[9] "Weisell has already pointed out that only a minimal level of dehydrogenation activity is necessary to produce normal levels of total activity."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The literature examines two types of platinum-alumina reforming catalysts, impregnated and cogelled, using HI adsorption and X-ray line-broadening techniques. The catalysts undergo various treatments, including fresh, coked, regenerated, mildly and severely sintered, and reactivated states. The adsorption results are interpreted based on the type of platinum aggregation-monolayer present in the catalysts and the manner in which hydrogen is adsorbed onto the surface interstices between platinum atoms.

2. The paper discusses the application of adsorption techniques by Boreskov and I<arnaukhov to study platinum supported on silica gel, employing hydrogen as the adsorbate. It also mentions the recent use of hydrogen adsorption by Spenadel and Boudart to study Pt-A1203 catalysts, whose findings align with those presented in the paper.

3. The results obtained from comparing adsorption data with X-ray line-broadening measurements indicate a general agreement in determining platinum particle dimensions, even when the adsorption data suggest that particles are too small to be visible via X-ray techniques. The dimensional values derived for fresh and sintered catalysts are considered physically significant.

4. The paper argues that the dimensional values obtained for fresh and sintered catalysts reflect real physical properties, whereas the results from reactivated catalysts should not be interpreted as indicating a decrease in platinum particle size.

5. Weisell's observation that only a minimal level of dehydrogenation activity is needed to achieve normal total activity supports the interpretation of the adsorption data on reactivated catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 文献研究了两种铂铝氧化物重整催化剂，浸渍和凝胶化类型，使用HI吸附和X射线谱线展宽技术。催化剂经历了新鲜、焦化、再生、轻微烧结、严重烧结和重新活化等处理状态。吸附结果基于催化剂中铂的聚合单层类型进行解释，并且氢原子在铂原子表面间隙处吸附的方式。

2. 论文提到Boreskov和I<arnaukhov使用氢作为吸附剂对支持在硅胶上的铂进行了吸附技术的应用。它还提到了Spenadel和Boudart最近对Pt-A1203催化剂使用氢吸附的研究，他们的结论与论文中提出的一致。

3. 通过比较吸附数据与X射线谱线展宽测量的结果，发现确定铂颗粒尺寸存在一致的迹象，即使吸附数据表明颗粒太小而无法通过X射线技术观察到也是如此。对于新鲜和烧结催化剂得到的尺寸值被认为是物理上重要的。

4. 论文认为，新鲜和烧结催化剂得到的尺寸值反映了真实的物理性质，而重新活化催化剂的结果不应被解释为铂颗粒尺寸的减少。

5. Weisell的观察指出，只有最小的脱氢活性是产生正常总活性所必需的，这支持了对重新活化催化剂吸附数据的解释。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
