<quotes>

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
[2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
[3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
[4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
[5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
[6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
[7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
[8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
[9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
[10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is a critical factor in their catalytic properties and performance. These structures are desirable in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions indicate that these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but with adsorbed oxygen, the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface. These predictions have been experimentally verified on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to understand the effects of multiple crystal facets on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of subsurface 3d atoms. The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration. The PtNiPt system is the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while the PtTiPt configuration is the most susceptible. The stability of these structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen has been demonstrated through DFT calculations and experimental verification on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends predicted.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.Pt3dPt亚表面结构在不同条件下的稳定性是其催化性能和表现的关键因素。这些结构在异相催化和电催化中是理想的。DFT预测表明，这些结构在真空和吸附氢的情况下是稳定的，但在吸附氧的情况下，3d原子应该迁移到表面。这些预测已经在选定的Pt3dPt(111)系统上进行了实验验证，并扩展到多晶Pt，以理解多个晶面对接近表面3d原子的迁移动力学障碍的影响。预测显示，Pt3dPt亚表面结构对于氧诱导的分离具有更高的活化障碍，与相应的Pt3dPt(111)配置相比。PtNiPt系统对于氧诱导的分离是最有抵抗力的，而PtTiPt配置是最容易受到影响的。这些结构在真空和吸附氢和氧情况下的稳定性已经通过DFT计算和实验验证在单晶Pt(111)和多晶Pt箔上得到证实。使用理论和实验相结合的方法，可以量化表面和亚表面双金属结构的相对稳定性，并预测一般趋势。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
