<quotes>

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
[2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
[3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
[4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
[5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
[6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
[7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
[8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
[9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
[10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
[11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is crucial for their application in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT calculations predict that these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but with adsorbed oxygen, the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) systems supports these predictions. Further experiments on polycrystalline Pt have been conducted to understand the effects of multiple crystal facets on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of subsurface 3d atoms. The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation on the (100) crystal facet compared to the (111) facet. PtNiPt is the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. The stability trend of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen has been demonstrated through DFT calculations and experimental verification on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. The difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in different environments.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.Pt3dPt亚表面结构在不同条件下的稳定性对于其在异相催化和电催化中的应用至关重要。DFT计算预测，这些结构在真空和吸附氢气时是稳定的，但在吸附氧气时，3d原子应迁移到表面。对Pt3dPt(111)系统的实验验证支持这些预测。在多晶Pt上进行了进一步的实验，以了解多个晶面对接近表面的3d原子的迁移动力学障碍的影响。预测Pt3dPt亚表面结构在(100)晶面上对氧气诱导的分层具有较高的活化势垒，与(111)面相比。PtNiPt对氧气诱导的分层的抵抗力最强，而PtTiPt的抵抗力最弱。通过DFT计算和在单晶Pt(111)和多晶Pt箔上进行的实验验证，已经证明了Pt3dPt亚表面结构在真空和吸附氢气和氧气中的稳定性趋势。占据的d带中心的差异，Δεd，可以用来筛选在不同环境中具有理想稳定性的潜在双金属合金。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
