<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is a critical factor in their catalytic properties and performance. These structures are desirable in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions indicate that these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but with adsorbed oxygen, the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface. These predictions have been experimentally verified on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to understand the effects of multiple crystal facets on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of subsurface 3d atoms. The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration. The PtNiPt system is the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while the PtTiPt configuration is the most susceptible. The stability of these structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen has been demonstrated through DFT calculations and experimental verification on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends predicted. The difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship has been derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems. Empirical equations have been developed to predict the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems in various conditions. The large difference in binding energies between surface and subsurface structures highlights the need to understand their stability in reacting environments. For Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in oxygen binding energy for these configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol. Based on Sabatier's principle, if a subsurface alloy structure exhibits optimal binding properties for dehydrogenation and ORR, the surface structure would likely bind intermediates too strongly, halting the reaction. Conversely, if the surface alloy structure exhibits optimal binding properties for steam reforming, the subsurface structure would bind adsorbates too weakly, preventing the reaction from proceeding. The stability of bimetallic structures has been considered with various atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships. DFT results predict that subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) configurations are preferred with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements have verified the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen and quantified the activation barrier for adsorbate-induced segregation. AES results suggest two regions of segregation, revealing that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap. Predictions show that all Pt3dPt(100) structures have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to respective Pt3dPt(111) configurations. Linear trends in all systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching the admetal/host component shifts the absolute driving potential of the segregation. This general stability trend predicts that all bimetallic systems have the same thermodynamically preferred configuration in each environment, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations favored with 0.5 ML O.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          Pt3dPt亚表面结构在不同条件下的稳定性是其催化性能和表现的关键因素。这些结构在异相催化和电催化中是理想的。DFT预测表明，这些结构在真空和吸附氢的情况下是稳定的，但在吸附氧的情况下，3d原子应该迁移到表面。这些预测已经在选定的Pt3dPt(111)系统上得到了实验验证，并扩展到多晶Pt，以理解多个晶面对接近表面3d原子的迁移动力学障碍的影响。预测显示，Pt3dPt亚表面结构对于氧诱导的分离具有更高的活化障碍，与相应的Pt3dPt(111)配置相比。PtNiPt系统对于氧诱导的分离是最有抵抗力的，而PtTiPt配置是最容易受到影响的。这些结构在真空和吸附氢和氧情况下的稳定性已经通过DFT计算和实验验证在单晶Pt(111)和多晶Pt箔上得到证实。使用理论和实验相结合的方法，可以量化表面和亚表面双金属结构的相对稳定性，并预测一般趋势。占据的d带中心的差异，Δεd，可以用来筛选在不同环境中具有理想稳定性的潜在双金属合金。已经推导出一个BrnstedEvansPolanyi关系，以将DFT计算的热力学稳定性与Pt3dPt系统的实验测量的动能障碍相关联。已经开发出了经验方程，用于预测其他双金属系统在各种条件下的热力学稳定性。表面和亚表面结构之间的结合能的巨大差异突出了在反应环境中理解这些配置的稳定性的必要性。对于Pt3d双金属系统，这两种配置的氧结合能的差异在几百千卡/摩尔的量级。根据萨巴蒂尔原理，如果亚表面合金结构在脱氢和ORR中表现出最佳的结合性能，表面结构可能会将中间体结合得太强，从而停止反应。相反，如果表面合金结构在蒸汽重整中表现出最佳的结合性能，亚表面结构可能会将吸附物结合得太弱，从而阻止反应的进行。双金属结构的稳定性已经考虑了各种原子物种，可以使用缩放关系扩展到更复杂的吸附物。DFT结果预测，亚表面PtMPt(111)配置在真空和0.5 ML H下是优选的，而表面MPtPt(111)配置在0.5 ML O下是优选的。实验测量已经验证了在氧气存在下预测的亚表面3d原子的分层，并量化了吸附物诱导分层的激活势垒。AES结果表明存在两个分层区域，揭示了DFT预测和单晶双金属表面的实验测量适用于多晶基底，弥合了材料差距。预测显示，所有Pt3dPt(100)结构的氧诱导分层的激活势垒比相应的Pt3dPt(111)配置更高。所有系统中的线性趋势表明，热力学稳定性与d带中心差异之间的相关性可以用于Pt3d合金之外。切换admetal/host组件会改变分层的绝对驱动力。这种一般的稳定性趋势预测，所有双金属系统在每种环境中都有相同的热力学优选的双金属配置，亚表面配置在真空和0.5 ML H下是优选的，而表面配置在0.5 ML O下是优选的。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
