<quotes>
Alkane dehydrogenation is an endothermic process, and requires relatively high temperatures and low pressures to obtain significant yields of alkenes. Because all equivalent CH bonds in an alkane molecule have an equal chance of reacting, a dehydrogenation reaction is expected to be rather unselective. Furthermore, the required high temperatures favor thermal cracking reactions to lighter alkanes and coke. As a consequence, suitable catalysts not only have to possess good activity and selectivity, but also must suppress thermal cracking reactions.

Since the pioneering work of Frey and Huppke, the superior properties of supported chromium oxide catalysts in alkane dehydrogenation are well-known, and Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts are widely used as the commercial catalyst of choice. The main result concerning Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts until the late 1960s are summarized in review papers by Poole and Mclver, and by Kearby. Subsequently, numerous papers have been published in the literature on CrOx/SiO2, CrOx/Al2O3 and CrOx/ZrO2 catalysts.

Dehydrogenation reactions are rather unselective, because all equivalent CH bonds have an equal bonding energy, and therefore an equal chance of reacting. When two CH bonds of neighboring carbons are split, a double bond is formed and alkanes are converted to alkenes. However, when the two CH bonds belong to non-neighboring carbon atoms, dehydrocyclization and possibly also aromatization may occur.

Thermodynamics show that aromatization equilibria overtake dehydrogenation equilibria at higher temperatures. Thus, n-hexane is primarily converted to benzene, whereas toluene can be made from n-heptane. If the two CH bonds are part of two different alkane molecules, higher molecular-weight hydrocarbons are formed, and extensive CH bond breaking and CC bond formation may lead to hydrogen gas and coke.

Commercial Cr-based dehydrogenation catalysts are typically composed of chromium oxides dispersed on a porous support including dopants to regulate deactivation and improve selectivity. The Cr loading is mostly around 13 wt% Cr, but dehydrogenation activity has been observed in the entire range between 0 and 20 wt% Cr. Although alumina with a surface area of 50300 m2/g is the preferred support for industrial applications, other supports such as zirconia, silica, and magnesium oxide have also been studied in great detail.

Numerous papers have been published in the literature regarding the characterization of chromium oxides supported on different inorganic oxides, and much research has dealt with the use of specific spectroscopic techniques, such as electron spin resonance (ESR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS), infrared spectroscopy (IR), and Raman spectroscopy (RS).

In situ characterization studies have been conducted using techniques such as Raman spectroscopy and diffuse reflectance spectroscopy in the UVVis region to monitor surface Cr-species during alkane dehydrogenations. In situ Raman spectroscopy has been used to study the reduction process of surface Cr6 species on a 5 wt% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst in the presence of n-butane. It was concluded that polychromate was more readily reducible than monochromate. However, above 350°C the in situ Raman spectra became less informative due to coke formation.

In situ DRS spectroscopy studies on 0.18.0 wt% Cr/Al2O3 catalysts show that surface Cr6 species are reduced at high temperature in the presence of n-butane or isobutane to mainly pseudo-octahedral Cr3. Thus, surface Cr3 species are formed under reaction conditions at the expense of Cr6. The nature of these surface Cr3 species was further unraveled by infrared spectroscopy measurements of adsorbed probe molecules (CO/NO). De Rossi et al. concluded that isolated Cr3 sites with two coordinative vacancies are formed on 0.161.55 wt% Cr/Al2O3 catalysts in the presence of n-propane.

The industrial cycling of Cr/Al2O3 catalysts under oxidizing and reducing conditions strongly affects their physicochemical structure, and ultimately leads to catalyst deactivation. The specific surface area of the catalyst decreases with increasing time-on-stream, increasing reaction temperature, and increasing number of catalytic cycles. In addition, the amount of surface Cr6 decreased with increasing number of cycles.

Similar results were obtained by De Rossi et al., who observed that the extent of reduction (as determined from the amount of H2 or CO consumed by their Cr/Al2O3 catalysts) decreases with increasing number of reduction-dehydrogenation recalcination cycles. This decrease has been attributed to an incomplete reoxidation of reduced Cr3 species.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. Linear alkane transformations occur through the formation of alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, which play crucial roles in determining reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. However, the specific details provided in the document pertain to chromium oxide catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation rather than silica-supported tantalum hydrides for alkane metathesis. Therefore, the information in the document does not cover the mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
该文献主要讨论了以氧化铬为基底的催化剂在烷烃脱氢过程中的全面机制，涉及双位点和单位点方案。线性烷烃转化通过形成烯烃和金属环丁烷起关键作用，决定了反应选择性和催化剂性能。然而，文档中提供的信息针对的是用于烷烃脱氢的氧化铬催化剂，而不是用于烷烃均裂的二氧化硅支持钽化氢催化剂。因此，文档内容并未涵盖二氧化硅支持钽化氢催化剂催化烷烃均裂的机制。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
