<quotes>
2.1. "Zinc cations were coordinated with ethylenediamine for stabilization against aggregation in the alkaline environment of zeolite synthesis."
2.2. "After crystallization and calcination in air, the Zn-x@S-1 samples with different Zn loadings could be obtained."
2.3. "The interaction between zinc species and Si-OH groups was also supported by NMR spectroscopic analyses."
2.4. "No traces of Zn aggregates could be identified in the TEM and STEM images shown in the Fig. 3 ."
2.5. "It should be noted that these binding energy values are significantly higher than those from bulk ZnO (1021.7 and 1044.7 eV) due to the electron transfer from Zn to zeolite framework."
2.6. "Interestingly, upon the introduction of 4 wt% zinc to S-1 zeolite, significant improvement in propane conversion and propylene selectivity could be simultaneously obtained."
2.7. "Zinc loading of 4% was optimized for Zn@S-1 PDH catalyst."
2.8. "According to these results, the impacts of O2 on PDH reaction were tentatively ascribed to the changes in the oxidation states of active zinc species."
2.9. "Summarizing the catalytic data, Zn@S-1 zeolites appear to be very promising PDH catalysts due to their good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, regeneration capability as well as the high abundance and nontoxicity of active zinc component."
2.10. "For insights into the active zinc sites for PDH reaction, the TPSR profiles on Zn-4@S-1 model catalyst were recorded under different conditions."
2.11. "Feeding propane to Zn-4@S-1 at 623 K could not reduce the Zn2+ species (unchanged Zn LMM binding energy value at 500.0 eV) while feeding propane at higher temperatures could."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The hydroxyl anchoring method facilitates the controlled incorporation of active metal compounds in crystal materials by trapping and stabilizing metal cations within the Si-OH groups of the zeolite matrix, preventing aggregation and ensuring effective interaction with the zeolite framework. This method enhances metal-support interactions, thereby improving the activity, selectivity, and stability of heterogeneous catalysts in solid-gas reactions.

2. The as-prepared Zn@S-1 zeolites demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction, making them promising catalysts for industrial PDH processes. Optimized conditions allow achieving propylene selectivity of 97% and spacetime yield (STY) of 24 at 853 K.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 氢氧基锚定方法通过将金属离子锁定并稳定在沸石材料中的Si-OH基团中，防止聚集并确保与沸石骨架的有效相互作用，从而促进晶态材料中活性金属化合物的可控掺入。这种方法增强了金属支持间的作用，进而提高了固体-气体反应中异质催化剂的活性、选择性和稳定性。

2. 所制备的Zn@S-1沸石在丙烷脱氢（PDH）反应中表现出良好的脱氢活性、高丙烯选择性和再生能力，使其成为工业PDH过程有前景的催化剂。优化条件允许在853 K时实现97%的丙烯选择性和时空产率（STY）为24。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
