<quotes>
Sulphur/ Halogen Promoted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Hydrocarbons
1. S .  PASTERNAK and M .  VADEKAR
Research Department, Imperial Oil Enterprises Ltd., Sarnia, Ontario lodine is known to be an efficient promoter for the oxidative dehydrogenation of a wide variety of hydro- carbons. However, because of its high cost attempts have been made to reduce or eliminate it from the reaction system while still achieving high product yields.
These considerations indieate that high product yields should also be possible with the new system if suitable ratalysts are used. 
In reccnt years oxidative processing of hydrocarbons has
I
assoincd great importancc in the pctrochcmical industry. A brief survey of literature indicates that oxidative processes such as: (a) ainnioxidation of propylcnc to acrylonitrile, (b) oxidation of ethylene to ethylene oxide, and C c ) ethylene oxidation (via the Wacker process) to acetaldehyde and vinyl acetate have been dewloped into major commercial processes (1).
Much attention has also hcen given to the selective, oxidative de- hydrogenation of alkanes and alkenes to produce olefinic and diolefinic monomers.Conventionally the production of olefins and diolefins has been carried out by thermal dehydrogenation using suitable catalysts. I n  the thcrmal dehydrogenation of butane, for example, using a chromia-on- alumina catalyst, butadiene yields of approximately 20% are obtaincd (*). Oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, on the other hand, are not equilibrium limited since a thermodynamically stable product (H20) is usually formed along with the olefinic product. However when oxygen alone is used as the hydrogen abstractor, in the prcscnce of different catalysts, low product yiclds are ohrained due to the occrrence of uncontrolled corn- bustion rcactions with the formation of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide.
A significant advance was made in the oxidative dehydro- genation technology when the Shell group of companies achieved success in the iodine promoted dehydrogenation of butene to butadiene ( 3 - 4 ) .  Shortly thereafter, Petro-Tex Chemical Corp. ( 5 ) obtained patents on an oxydehydrogenation process using iodine as well as bromine and chlorine as thc promoters. Both the Shell and Pctro-Tex proccsscs allowed up to 709;) butadiene yields from butane and higher than 8 0 y o once-through butadiene yields from tnitenc. Moreover it was noted by Petro-Tcx that of thc thrcc halogcn pronioters used. iodine was thc most effective producing highest once-through yields ( - 807,) when present in smallest molar ratios, i.e. 0.001-0.002 tnole I2 p x  mole hydrocarbon feed. Bromine and chlorine were less effective when
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature does not provide specific information about how the structural characteristics, surface properties (particularly acidity and basicity), and Lewis acid sites of different Ga2O3 polymorphs (α-, β-, γ-, and δ-) influence their catalytic performance in CO2-ODHP reactions. The focus of the document is on the use of sulfur and halogens in oxidative dehydrogenation processes, particularly in comparison to iodine and its role as a promoter in butene-to-butadiene reactions. It does not discuss Ga2O3 polymorphs or their catalytic performance in CO2-ODHP reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献没有提供关于不同Ga2O3晶型（α-、β-、γ-和δ-）的结构特征、表面性质（特别是酸性和碱性），以及Lewis酸位如何影响它们在CO2-ODHP反应中的催化性能的具体信息。本文主要关注硫和卤素在氧化脱氢作用过程中的应用，特别是在与碘在丁烯转化为丁二烯反应中的作用比较中。它并没有讨论Ga2O3晶型或其在CO2-ODHP反应中的催化性能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
