<quotes>
[1] "The Journal of Physical Chemistry CVol 112/Issue 32Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLE July 17, 2008 CO Oxidation by Rutile TiO2(110) Doped with V, W, Cr, Mo, and Mn Hyun You Kim Hyuck Mo Lee Raj Ganesh S. Pala Vladimir Shapovalov Horia Metiu"
[2] "We used density functional theory to study CO oxidation catalyzed by TiO2(110), in which some Ti atoms on the surface are replaced with V, Cr, Mo, W, or Mn."
[3] "We find that in the presence of O, V, Cr, Mo, and W dopants at the surface bind an oxygen atom so that the dopant has formula MO (M = V, Cr, Mo, W)."
[4] "Doping is not always beneficial. Ceria doped with Sm, Gd, La, Nb, and Ta has lower activity toward n-butane oxidation (47) than ceria alone, and doping ceria with La, Pr, Gd, or Nb slows down CO oxidation."
[5] "In the case of CO oxidation on (VO)xTi1xO2 (110), the VO group does not participate in the CO oxidation cycle but helps it by weakening the bond of the oxygen atoms at b1 and b2 (see Figure 1) to the oxide."
[6] "It is often assumed that the amount of charge present on different atoms in the reaction intermediates is an important descriptor of the chemistry of the system. Because of this we have calculated the Bader charges on the atoms for different intermediates. The results are given in Tables 5 and 6. We find no correlation between the charges on different atoms in the system and their chemical activity."
[7] "We note the similarity of this cycle with that of CO oxidation by AuxTi1xO2 (110). (48) The VO group does not participate in the CO oxidation cycle but helps it by weakening the bond of the oxygen atoms at b1 and b2 (see Figure 1) to the oxide."
[8] "The important steps in the catalytic cycle (the reactivity of surface oxygen and the ability of the vacancy to adsorb O2) both depend on the energy of vacancy formation ΔEv2. Because ΔEv2 is a property of the catalyst, we expect that catalysts that are good for CO catalytic oxidation would also be good for other catalytic oxidation reactions in which a reactant takes one oxygen atom from the surface."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The study employed density functional theory to investigate the catalytic properties of CO oxidation on rutile TiO2(110) surfaces doped with V, W, Cr, Mo, and Mn. The dopants at the surface bind an oxygen atom, forming MO compounds (where M is V, Cr, Mo, or W). This behavior is similar to that observed on AuxTi1xO2(110) surfaces.

2. The doping of ceria with certain elements, like Sm, Gd, La, Nb, and Ta, decreases its activity in n-butane oxidation compared to undoped ceria. Similarly, doping ceria with La, Pr, Gd, or Nb affects CO oxidation negatively.

3. On (VO)xTi1xO2(110), the VO group facilitates CO oxidation by weakening the bonds of the oxygen atoms at specific positions (b1 and b2) to the oxide surface.

4. No correlation was found between the Bader charges on atoms in reaction intermediates and their chemical activity. 

5. The similarity between CO oxidation on (VO)xTi1xO2(110) and AuxTi1xO2(110) surfaces lies in the assistance of the dopant in weakening the bonds of oxygen atoms to the oxide surface.

6. The energy of vacancy formation ΔEv2 influences the catalytic properties of the oxide. Catalysts effective for CO oxidation are anticipated to perform well in other oxidation reactions where a reactant takes one oxygen atom from the surface.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 我们使用密度泛函理论研究了在表面替换了一些Ti原子的TiO2(110)上CO氧化催化作用，这些Ti原子被V、Cr、Mo、W或Mn取代。这些掺杂剂在表面结合了一个氧原子，形成了MO化合物（M为V、Cr、Mo或W）。这种行为类似于在AuxTi1xO2(110)表面上观察到的行为。

2. 在Sm、Gd、La、Nb和Ta等元素掺杂的铈中，其对丁烷氧化的活性低于未掺杂的铈。类似地，La、Pr、Gd或Nb的铈掺杂会减慢CO的氧化速率。

3. 对于(VO)xTi1xO2(110)，VO组在CO氧化过程中通过削弱特定位置（b1和b2）的氧原子与氧化物表面的键，辅助CO氧化。

4. 没有在反应中间体中的原子电荷量与其化学活性之间发现相关性。

5. (VO)xTi1xO2(110)和AuxTi1xO2(110)表面之间的相似之处在于助剂通过削弱氧原子与氧化物表面的键来辅助CO氧化。

6. 空位形成能ΔEv2影响氧化物的催化性能。预计对CO氧化有效的催化剂在涉及从表面取走一个氧原子的其他氧化反应中也能表现出良好的性能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
