 Tandem catalysis at nanoscale
Chemical engineering processes are typically governed by multiple unit operations. To minimize the energy consumption and economic cost, researchers face the challenge of integrating multiple steps of reactions and separations. A tandem reaction involves sequential reactions within one condition, presenting an effective scheme for emerging chemical industries (1). On page 1257 of this issue, Yan et al. (2) present a tandem catalyst with porous overcoating structures, In2O3-Pt/Al2O3, for coupling catalytic propane dehydrogenation with selective H2 combustion.
To control the reaction sequence and selectivity under the coexistence of reactants, intermediates, and products, the design of tandem catalysts plays a crucial role in mediating the multiple reactions under the same condition (3). In principle, a tandem catalyst is composed of different types of catalytic sites, and a predetermined sequence of reactions occurs at each corresponding catalytic site. The key to manipulating the process of tandem catalysis is to coordinate the transport of reactive intermediates among catalytic sites (4, 5). Random physical mixtures of catalysts cannot effectively mediate the reaction sequence. Therefore, the proximity (6, 7) and hierarchy (8) of catalytic sites within the tandem catalyst must be carefully constructed to regulate the transport of key intermediates.
Tandem catalysis with porous overcoating structurePropane dehydrogenation makes propylene, which is an important feedstock for polymers. The porous overcoating structure regulates the transport of hydrogen species and promotes the selective H2 combustion, which consequently drives catalytic propane dehydrogenation forward. The relative location of the alumina-supported platinum and the indium oxide ceramic is important for tandem catalysis.GRAPHIC: V. ALTOUNIAN/SCIENCE BASED ON C. PEI AND J. GONG
The research on the tandem coupling of catalytic propane dehydrogenation to selective H2 combustion bridges the fundamental philosophy to the industrial application. The on-purpose production of propylene directly from propane is a highly desired process to fill the supply-demand gap in the alkene market (9, 10). The catalytic propane dehydrogenation process as an endothermic reaction is restricted by the thermodynamic equilibrium, as well as sintering and coking under high temperatures (11, 12). Instant removal of H2 through selective combustion could force the catalytic dehydrogenation to move forward and break the thermodynamic limitation of the nonoxidative catalytic reaction (13). However, to avoid the combustion of carbon species, the catalytic dehydrogenation and selective H2 combustion must be properly regulated in sequence by the tandem catalyst.