<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Propene, the second most important olefin building block and raw material in the chemical industry, is widely used to prepare value-added chemicals and polymer products such as polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylonitrile, acrylic acid, isopropylbenzene, and butyl alcohol.
          With the development of the modern chemical industry and the increase in consumption of high-value-added products, the annual demand for propene is increasing.
          Among the existing propene production technologies, the synthesis of propene through propane dehydrogenation is more economically viable and environmentally friendly.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Propene is a crucial component in the chemical industry, serving as a raw material for various high-value-added chemicals and polymer products. Its importance has grown alongside the expansion of the chemical industry and the rising demand for these products. Propane dehydrogenation is favored for propene production due to its economic and environmental advantages over other methods.
          Propene is a crucial raw material in the chemical industry, used in the production of various high-value-added chemicals and polymer products. The growing demand for propene is driven by the expansion of the modern chemical industry and the increased consumption of these products. Propane dehydrogenation is favored as a production method due to its economic viability and environmental benefits compared to other existing technologies.
          Propene is a crucial component in the chemical industry, serving as a raw material for the production of various high-value-added chemicals and polymer products. The increasing demand for propene is driven by the growth of the modern chemical industry and the rising consumption of these products. Propane dehydrogenation is favored as a production method due to its economic viability and environmental benefits compared to other existing technologies.
          Propene is a crucial raw material in the chemical industry, used in the production of various high-value-added chemicals and polymer products. The growing demand for these products has led to an increase in the annual demand for propene. Propane dehydrogenation is preferred for propene production due to its economic viability and environmental friendliness compared to other existing technologies.
          Propene is a crucial raw material in the chemical industry, used in the production of various high-value-added chemicals and polymer products. The growing demand for these products has led to an increased annual demand for propene. Propane dehydrogenation is preferred for propene production due to its economic viability and environmental benefits compared to other existing technologies.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          丙烯是化工行业中的重要烯烃基石和原材料，广泛用于生产聚丙烯、环氧丙烷、丙烯腈、丙烯酸、异丙基苯和丁醇等高附加值化学品和聚合物产品。随着现代化工行业的发展和高附加值产品消费的增加，丙烯的年需求量正在上升。在现有的丙烯生产技术中，通过丙烷脱氢合成丙烯在经济和环境方面更具可行性。
          丙烯是化工行业中的关键原材料，用于生产各种高附加值化学品和聚合物产品。丙烯需求的增长是由现代化工行业的扩张和这些产品消费量的增加所推动的。与现有的其他丙烯生产技术相比，丙烷脱氢法因其经济可行性和环境优势而受到青睐。
          丙烯是化工行业中的关键原料，用于生产各种高附加值化学品和聚合物产品。丙烯需求的增加是由现代化工行业的发展和这些产品消费量的增加所推动的。与现有的其他丙烯生产技术相比，丙烷脱氢法因其经济可行性和环境友好性而受到青睐。
          丙烯是化工行业重要的烯烃原料，用于生产多种高附加值化学品和聚合物产品，如聚丙烯、环氧丙烷、丙烯腈、丙烯酸、异丙苯和丁醇。随着现代化工行业的发展和高附加值产品消费的增加，丙烯的年需求量正在上升。在现有的丙烯生产技术中，通过丙烷脱氢合成丙烯在经济性和环保性方面更具优势。
          丙烯是化工行业重要的原料，用于生产各种高附加值化学品和聚合物产品。随着这些产品需求的增加，丙烯的年需求量也在增长。与现有其他技术相比，丙烷脱氢制丙烯在经济性和环保性方面更具优势，因此成为首选的丙烯生产方法。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
