<quotes>

[1] "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production which has received extensive attention in recent years."
[2] "With the development of dehydrogenation technologies, the efficient adsorption/activation of propane and subsequential desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts remain scientifically challenging."
[3] "The active sites, reaction pathways and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides as well as their dependent factors are also analysed and discussed, which is expected to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing the reaction barriers and controlling the selectivity towards propylene."
[4] "The reaction is highly endothermic and a process that the number of gas molecules increases, which implies that increasing reaction temperatures and/or decreasing partial pressures contribute to higher conversions of propane, as shown by the thermodynamic analysis in Fig. 2a."
[5] "Therefore, the reaction conditions and reaction kinetics should be regulated to inhibit the side reaction and improve the propylene selectivity and productivity."
[6] "Larger particles lead to side reactions such as hydrogenolysis (eqn (3)), cracking (eqn (2)), hydrogenation (eqn (4)) and coke (eqn (5)) reactions."
[7] "These restrictions lead to great challenges to the dehydrogenation technologies and catalyst design."
[8] "Although the Pt catalyst shows excellent propane dehydrogenation activity due to its affinity for paraffinic CH bonds and environmental friendliness, its high tendency to coking and sintering and high cost still require the development of low Pt-content and stable Pt-based catalysts via special preparation methods, and support and promoter effects."
[9] "Developing alternative metal oxide catalysts with low or non-chromium content is highly desired."
[10] "The Catofin process uses counter-current flow technology to change the flow direction of reactive materials,air downward and hydrocarbons directly upward, so that more products can be obtained with fewer raw materials, thus reducing investments and operating costs."
[11] "The Oleflex process converts propane into propylene by catalytic dehydrogenation under moving bed reactors, and was commercialized in 1990."
[12] "The pre-treated C3 LPG feedstock is introduced into the depropanizer. Butane or heavy components in C3 LPG are discharged from the bottom of the depropanizer."
[13] "The top of the depropanizer is fed to the C3 Oleflex unit to produce propylene rich liquid products and hydrogen-rich gas products."
[14] "The net hydrogen can be exported directly for modification of the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) or as a fuel in the unit."
[15] "Oleflex dehydrogenation units can be easily integrated with downstream conversion processes, such as alkylation,to produce high-octane alkylation oils, or isobutylene dimerization,followed by hydrogenation to produce high-octane isooctane."
[16] "This combination is called as a UOP indirect alkylation (InAlkTM) process."
[17] "The feed flow is that, first, the feed gas flows into the reaction tower, and then the catalyst powder and product gas are separated by the cyclone separator."
[18] "Afterward, the product gas is compressed and subsequently separated to obtain the targeted propylene gas."
[19] "Additionally, the catalyst with carbon deposition on the surface is transported to the regeneration tower (700 1C)."
[20] "The heat generated by the roasting is used as the reactor heat source."
[21] "The generated catalyst is then transferred to the reaction tower for the next propane dehydrogenation cycle."
[22] "The latest dehydrogenation catalysts focus on platinumtin catalysts with excellent selec- tivity and activity."
[23] "The multi-tube fixed bed reactor operates at 550650 1C and catalysts are periodically regenerated with air."
[24] "Under isothermal operation, the process can achieve more than 90% propylene selectivity."
[25] "The catalyst life can exceed two years due to the reduced coke accumulation and low deactiva- tion rates."
[26] "The high conversion rates and simple fixed-bed reactor design result in less equipment and therefore less investment."
[27] "In addition, operating above atmospheric pressure provides higher safety standards than other technologies."
[28] "In the oxidative dehydrogenation section, oxygen is introduced into the reactor,where it reacts with some hydrogen products to form H2O."
[29] "This reverses the equilibrium of the dehydrogenation reaction, thus increasing the conversion rate."
[30] "In addition, the formation of H2O is an exothermic reaction, thus providing additional heat to the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction."
[31] "STAR catalyst (PtSn on ZnCa aluminate) is based on zinc aluminate and calcium supports, impregnated with various metals, and exhibits excellent dehydrogenation performance,and high selectivity at a nearly balanced conversion rate."
[32] "The catalyst is very stable in the presence of steam at high temperatures, providing a unique advantage to the process."
[33] "It has been commercially validated and shows a life span of more than 5 years."
[34] "Similar techniques can achieve acceptable yields at pressures close to atmospheric pressure or even lower (in a vacuum)."
[35] "The STAR process has the highest spatial yield of all PDH technologies and operates at a reactor outlet pressure of approximately 5.8 bar, allowing for a higher compressor suction pressure, which significantly reduces the investment and operating expenses associated with coarse gas compression."
[36] "The ADHO technology has the following characteristics,where raw materials do not need pretreatment and can be directly fed into the reactor without desulfurization, dearseni- fication and other complex technical processes."
[37] "The reaction and catalyst regeneration are carried out continuously with high production efficiency."
[38] "The catalyst is non-toxic with no pollution to the environment and non-corrosive, and is con- ducive to the safe and stable operation of the device over a long period."
[39] "Additionally, the catalyst exhibits high mechanical strength and low agent consumption."
[40] "It is not only suitable for dehydrogenation of propane and butane alone, but also for dehydrogenation of mixed propane and butane."
[41] "The results of the industrialization test in Shandong Hengyuan Petrochemical Company Limited show that the single-pass conversion rates of alkanes, and the yields and selectivities of alkenes are comparable to the FBD-4 technology introduced in China, which fills the gap in the field of this technology in China."
[42] "The optimized catalysts coupled with appropriate dehydrogena- tion and regeneration units achieve approximately 93% propylene selectivity at about 45% propane conversion over K-promoted PtGa/Al2O3 catalysts."
[43] "Over 20% capital savings versus other commercial technologies have been achieved largely because of the simplicity of this system."
[44] "Moreover, the energy demand per pound of propylene is reduced due to the higher propane conversion at moderate operating pressure."
[45] "In addition, the design uses robust reactor/catalyst regen- erator technology that allows the process to be scaled as needed."
[46] "With a concept of using the catalyst to carry heat to the reactor, lower energy requirements and lower CO2 emissions come true."
[47] "Besides, the FCDh technology applies a different method from the commercial technologies where the transport of the deactivated catalysts between the dehydrogenation and regeneration units is over shorter periods."
[48] "This new technology can be fully integrated with existing ethylene crackers in parallel 3320  Chem. Soc. Rev., 2021, 50, 33153354 This journal is The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021 Review Article Chem Soc Rev Published on 25 January 2021. Downloaded by University of California - Santa Barbara on 5/16/2021 10:10:53 PM."
[49] "View Article Online with new or existing furnaces, which can increase the production of ethylene and propylene through an existing light hydrocarbon facility or by building a new facility based on ethane and propane feeds."
[50] "Dow is currently promoting this technology on a commer- cial scale in an existing cracker."
[51] "The technology can be implemented as a stand-alone propylene production unit inde- pendent of a steam cracker or an FCC unit."
[52] "The regeneration is Orthoflow FCC continuous regeneration."
[53] "In the K-PROt reaction section, fresh propane and recycled propane are fed into the KBR Orthoflow Converter."
[54] "Reaction section effluent gas is then flowed into the compressing unit, low temperature section, and subse- quential PSA and purification sections."
[55] "Notably, the K-COTt reactor includes inherent continuous catalyst regeneration and heat input."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production that has received extensive attention in recent years. The efficient adsorption/activation of propane and subsequent desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts remain scientifically challenging.
2.The active sites, reaction pathways, and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides, as well as their dependent factors, are analyzed and discussed. This is expected to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing the reaction barriers and controlling the selectivity towards propylene.
3.The reaction is highly endothermic, and increasing reaction temperatures and/or decreasing partial pressures contribute to higher conversions of propane. The reaction conditions and reaction kinetics should be regulated to inhibit side reactions and improve propylene selectivity and productivity.
4.Larger particles lead to side reactions such as hydrogenolysis, cracking, hydrogenation, and coke reactions. These restrictions lead to great challenges for dehydrogenation technologies and catalyst design.
5.Although the Pt catalyst shows excellent propane dehydrogenation activity due to its affinity for paraffinic CH bonds and environmental friendliness, its high tendency to coking and sintering and high cost still require the development of low Pt-content and stable Pt-based catalysts via special preparation methods, support, and promoter effects.
6.Developing alternative metal oxide catalysts with low or non-chromium content is highly desired.
7.The Catofin process uses counter-current flow technology to change the flow direction of reactive materials, air downward and hydrocarbons directly upward, so that more products can be obtained with fewer raw materials, thus reducing investments and operating costs.
8.The Oleflex process converts propane into propylene by catalytic dehydrogenation under moving bed reactors, which was commercialized in 1990.
9.The pre-treated C3 LPG feedstock is introduced into the depropanizer. Butane or heavy components in C3 LPG are discharged from the bottom of the depropanizer.
10.The top of the depropanizer is fed to the C3 Oleflex unit to produce propylene-rich liquid products and hydrogen-rich gas products.
11.The net hydrogen can be exported directly for modification of the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) or as a fuel in the unit.
12.Oleflex dehydrogenation units can be easily integrated with downstream conversion processes, such as alkylation, to produce high-octane alkylation oils, or isobutylene dimerization, followed by hydrogenation to produce high-octane isooctane. This combination is called the UOP indirect alkylation (InAlkTM) process.
13.The feed flow is that, first, the feed gas flows into the reaction tower, and then the catalyst powder and product gas are separated by the cyclone separator.
14.Afterward, the product gas is compressed and subsequently separated to obtain the targeted propylene gas.
15.Additionally, the catalyst with carbon deposition on the surface is transported to the regeneration tower (700 1C).
16.The heat generated by the roasting is used as the reactor heat source.
17.The generated catalyst is then transferred to the reaction tower for the next propane dehydrogenation cycle.
18.The latest dehydrogenation catalysts focus on platinum-tin catalysts with excellent selectivity and activity.
19.The multi-tube fixed bed reactor operates at 550-650 1C, and catalysts are periodically regenerated with air.
20.Under isothermal operation, the process can achieve more than 90% propylene selectivity.
21.The catalyst life can exceed two years due to the reduced coke accumulation and low deactivation rates.
22.The high conversion rates and simple fixed-bed reactor design result in less equipment and therefore less investment.
23.In addition, operating above atmospheric pressure provides higher safety standards than other technologies.
24.In the oxidative dehydrogenation section, oxygen is introduced into the reactor, where it reacts with some hydrogen products to form H2O.
25.This reverses the equilibrium of the dehydrogenation reaction, thus increasing the conversion rate.
26.In addition, the formation of H2O is an exothermic reaction, thus providing additional heat to the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction.
27.STAR catalyst (PtSn on ZnCa aluminate) is based on zinc aluminate and calcium supports, impregnated with various metals, and exhibits excellent dehydrogenation performance and high selectivity at a nearly balanced conversion rate.
28.The catalyst is very stable in the presence of steam at high temperatures, providing a unique advantage to the process.
29.It has been commercially validated and shows a life span of more than 5 years.
30.Similar techniques can achieve acceptable yields at pressures close to atmospheric pressure or even lower (in a vacuum).
31.The STAR process has the highest spatial yield of all PDH technologies and operates at a reactor outlet pressure of approximately 5.8 bar, allowing for a higher compressor suction pressure, which significantly reduces the investment and operating expenses associated with coarse gas compression.
32.The ADHO technology has the following characteristics: raw materials do not need pretreatment and can be directly fed into the reactor without desulfurization, dearsenification, and other complex technical processes.
33.The reaction and catalyst regeneration are carried out continuously with high production efficiency.
34.The catalyst is non-toxic with no pollution to the environment and non-corrosive, and is conducive to the safe and stable operation of the device over a long period.
35.Additionally, the catalyst exhibits high mechanical strength and low agent consumption.
36.It is not only suitable for dehydrogenation of propane and butane alone but also for dehydrogenation of mixed propane and butane.
37.The results of the industrialization test in Shandong Hengyuan Petrochemical Company Limited show that the single-pass conversion rates of alkanes, and the yields and selectivities of alkenes are comparable to the FBD-4 technology introduced in China, which fills the gap in the field of this technology in China.
38.The optimized catalysts coupled with appropriate dehydrogenation and regeneration units achieve approximately 93% propylene selectivity at about 45% propane conversion over K-promoted PtGa/Al2O3 catalysts.
39.Over 20% capital savings versus other commercial technologies have been achieved largely because of the simplicity of this system.
40.Moreover, the energy demand per pound of propylene is reduced due to the higher propane conversion at moderate operating pressure.
41.In addition, the design uses robust reactor/catalyst regenerator technology that allows the process to be scaled as needed.
42.With a concept of using the catalyst to carry heat to the reactor, lower energy requirements and lower CO2 emissions come true.
43.Besides, the FCDh technology applies a different method from the commercial technologies where the transport of the deactivated catalysts between the dehydrogenation and regeneration units is over shorter periods.
44.This new technology can be fully integrated with existing ethylene crackers in parallel.
45.Dow is currently promoting this technology on a commercial scale in an existing cracker.
46.The technology can be implemented as a stand-alone propylene production unit independent of a steam cracker or an FCC unit.
47.The regeneration is Orthoflow FCC continuous regeneration.
48.In the K-PROt reaction section, fresh propane and recycled propane are fed into the KBR Orthoflow Converter.
49.Reaction section effluent gas is then flowed into the compressing unit, low temperature section, and subsequent PSA and purification sections.
50.Notably, the K-COTt reactor includes inherent continuous catalyst regeneration and heat input.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一种直接生产丙烯的工业技术,近年来受到了广泛关注。在异质催化剂表面高效吸附/活化丙烷并随后脱附丙烯仍然存在科学挑战。
2.分析和讨论了金属和金属氧化物上PDH的活性位点、反应途径和失活机制及其相关因素。这有望实现高效催化剂设计,以最小化反应势垒并控制丙烯选择性。
3.反应高度吸热,提高反应温度和/或降低分压有助于提高丙烷转化率。应调节反应条件和反应动力学,以抑制副反应,提高丙烯选择性和生产力。
4.较大的颗粒会导致氢解、裂解、氢化和焦炭等副反应。这些限制给脱氢技术和催化剂设计带来了巨大挑战。
5.尽管Pt催化剂由于对烷基CH键的亲和力和环境友好性而表现出优异的丙烷脱氢活性,但由于其高倾向结焦和烧结以及高成本,仍需要通过特殊制备方法、载体和助剂效应开发低Pt含量和稳定的Pt基催化剂。
6.开发低或非铬含量的替代金属氧化物催化剂是高度期望的。
7.Catofin工艺采用逆流技术改变反应物料的流向,空气向下,烃类直接向上,以较少的原料获得更多的产品,从而减少投资和运营成本。
8.Oleflex工艺于1990年商业化,在移动床反应器下通过催化脱氢将丙烷转化为丙烯。
9.预处理的C3 LPG原料引入脱丙烷器。C3 LPG中的丁烷或重组分从脱丙烷器底部排出。
10.脱丙烷器顶部的物料被送入C3 Oleflex单元,生产富含丙烯的液体产品和富氢气体产品。
11.净氢可直接用于压力摆动吸附(PSA)的改性或作为单元的燃料。
12.Oleflex脱氢单元可轻松与下游转化过程集成,如烷基化,生产高辛烷值烷基化油,或异丁烯二聚,随后氢化生产高辛烷值异辛烷。这种组合被称为UOP间接烷基化(InAlkTM)工艺。
13.物料流动首先,进料气体流入反应塔,然后催化剂粉末和产品气体通过旋风分离器分离。
14.随后,产品气体被压缩并进一步分离以获得目标丙烯气体。
15.此外,表面有碳沉积的催化剂被输送到再生塔(700 1C)。
16.由烧结产生的热量用作反应器热源。
17.生成的催化剂随后被转移到反应塔进行下一次丙烷脱氢循环。
18.最新的脱氢催化剂专注于具有优异选择性和活性的铂锡催化剂。
19.多管固定床反应器在550-650 1C下运行,催化剂定期用空气再生。
20.在等温操作下,该工艺可实现超过90%的丙烯选择性。
21.由于减少了焦炭积累和低失活率,催化剂寿命可超过两年。
22.高转化率和简单的固定床反应器设计导致较少的设备,因此投资较少。
23.此外,在高于大气压下运行提供了比其他技术更高的安全标准。
24.在氧化脱氢部分,氧气被引入反应器,与一些氢气产物反应生成H2O。
25.这逆转了脱氢反应的平衡,从而提高了转化率。
26.此外,H2O的形成是一个放热反应,从而为吸热脱氢反应提供了额外的热量。
27.STAR催化剂(PtSn在ZnCa铝酸盐上)基于锌铝酸盐和钙载体,浸渍各种金属,在几乎平衡的转化率下表现出优异的脱氢性能和高选择性。
28.该催化剂在高温下对蒸汽非常稳定,为工艺提供了独特的优势。
29.它已被商业验证,使用寿命超过5年。
30.类似技术在接近大气压甚至更低(真空)的压力下可实现可接受的产率。
31.STAR工艺在所有PDH技术中具有最高的空间产率,在约5.8 bar的反应器出口压力下运行,允许更高的压缩机吸气压力,从而显著降低与粗气压缩相关的投资和运营费用。
32.ADHO技术具有以下特点:原料无需预处理,可直接送入反应器,无需脱硫、脱砷等复杂工艺过程。
33.反应和催化剂再生连续进行,生产效率高。
34.催化剂无毒,对环境无污染,无腐蚀性,有利于设备长期安全稳定运行。
35.此外,催化剂具有高机械强度和低剂耗。
36.它不仅适用于单独脱氢的丙烷和丁烷,也适用于混合丙烷和丁烷的脱氢。
37.山东恒源石化有限公司工业试验结果表明,单程转化率、烯烃产率和选择性与我国引进的FBD-4技术相当,填补了该技术领域的空白。
38.优化的催化剂与适当的脱氢和再生单元结合,在K促进的PtGa/Al2O3催化剂上实现了约45%丙烷转化率下约93%的丙烯选择性。
39.与其它商业技术相比,由于该系统的简单性,资本节省超过20%。
40.此外,由于在中等操作压力下丙烷转化率较高,每磅丙烯的能源需求降低。
41.此外,设计使用了强大的反应器/催化剂再生技术,可根据需要扩展工艺。
42.通过使用催化剂将热量传递到反应器的概念,降低了能源需求和CO2排放。
43.此外,FCDh技术采用与商业技术不同的方法,其中脱氢和再生单元之间失活催化剂的运输时间较短。
44.这项新技术可以与现有乙烯裂解炉平行完全集成。
45.道达尔目前正在现有裂解炉中以商业规模推广这项技术。
46.该技术可作为独立的丙烯生产单元,独立于蒸汽裂解炉或FCC单元。
47.再生是Orthoflow FCC连续再生。
48.在K-PROt反应部分,新鲜丙烷和循环丙烷被送入KBR Orthoflow转换器。
49.反应部分的尾气随后流入压缩单元、低温段和后续PSA和净化段。
50.值得注意的是,K-COTt反应器包括固有的连续催化剂再生和热输入。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
