<quotes>

[1] "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production which has received extensive attention in recent years."
[2] "With the development of dehydrogenation technologies, the efficient adsorption/activation of propane and subsequential desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts remain scientifically challenging."
[3] "The active sites, reaction pathways and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides as well as their dependent factors are also analysed and discussed, which is expected to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing the reaction barriers and controlling the selectivity towards propylene."
[4] "PDH technology is considered to be one of the most promising propylene production methods because it is a proprietary method that produces only propylene, not a hybrid product."
[5] "The reaction is highly endothermic and a process that the number of gas molecules increases, which implies that increasing reaction temperatures and/or decreasing partial pressures contribute to higher conversions of propane, as shown by the thermodynamic analysis in Fig. 2a."
[6] "Therefore, the reaction conditions and reaction kinetics should be regulated to inhibit the side reaction and improve the propylene selectivity and productivity."
[7] "Larger particles lead to side reactions such as hydrogenolysis (eqn (3)), cracking (eqn (2)), hydrogenation (eqn (4)) and coke (eqn (5)) reactions."
[8] "These restrictions lead to great challenges to the dehydrogenation technologies and catalyst design."
[9] "Although the Pt catalyst shows excellent propane dehydrogenation activity due to its affinity for paraffinic CH bonds and environmental friendliness, its high tendency to coking and sintering and high cost still require the development of low Pt-content and stable Pt-based catalysts via special preparation methods, and support and promoter effects."
[10] "The difficulties mainly stem from the structural complexity of supported nanoparticles and the uncertainty of relevant preparation processes."
[11] "Therefore, the exploitation of new efficient strategies for improving the stability of Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts and finding alternative catalysts still remain great challenges."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production that has received extensive attention in recent years. The efficient adsorption and activation of propane, as well as the subsequent desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts, remain scientifically challenging. The active sites, reaction pathways, and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides, as well as their dependent factors, are analyzed and discussed to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing reaction barriers and controlling selectivity towards propylene.
2.PDH technology is considered one of the most promising propylene production methods because it is a proprietary method that produces only propylene, not a hybrid product. The reaction is highly endothermic, and increasing the number of gas molecules implies that increasing reaction temperatures and/or decreasing partial pressures contribute to higher conversions of propane. Therefore, the reaction conditions and reaction kinetics should be regulated to inhibit side reactions and improve propylene selectivity and productivity. Larger particles lead to side reactions such as hydrogenolysis, cracking, hydrogenation, and coke reactions, which pose great challenges to dehydrogenation technologies and catalyst design.
3.Although the Pt catalyst shows excellent propane dehydrogenation activity due to its affinity for paraffinic CH bonds and environmental friendliness, its high tendency to coking and sintering and high cost still require the development of low Pt-content and stable Pt-based catalysts via special preparation methods, support, and promoter effects. The difficulties mainly stem from the structural complexity of supported nanoparticles and the uncertainty of relevant preparation processes. Therefore, the exploitation of new efficient strategies for improving the stability of Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts and finding alternative catalysts still remain great challenges.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一种直接生产丙烯的工业技术，近年来受到广泛关注。在异质催化剂表面高效吸附/活化丙烷以及随后的丙烯脱附仍然存在科学挑战。分析和讨论了金属和金属氧化物上PDH的活性位点、反应途径和失活机制及其相关因素，这有望实现高效催化剂设计，以最小化反应势垒并控制丙烯选择性。
2.PDH技术被认为是生产丙烯最有望的方法之一，因为它是一种专有方法，只生产丙烯，而不是混合产品。反应是高度吸热的，气体分子数目的增加意味着提高反应温度和/或降低分压有利于提高丙烷的转化率。因此，应调节反应条件和反应动力学，以抑制副反应，提高丙烯的选择性和产量。较大的颗粒会导致氢解、裂解、氢化和焦化等副反应，这对脱氢技术和催化剂设计构成了巨大挑战。
3.尽管Pt催化剂由于对烷基CH键的亲和力和环境友好性而显示出优异的丙烷脱氢活性，但由于其高倾向结焦、烧结和高成本，仍需通过特殊制备方法、载体和助剂效应开发低Pt含量和稳定的Pt基催化剂。主要困难源于支撑纳米颗粒的结构复杂性和相关制备过程的不确定性。因此，开发新的高效策略以提高Pt基和CrOx基催化剂的稳定性，以及寻找替代催化剂，仍然是巨大的挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
