<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Three different peaks were identified from the TPO profiles on the PtSn catalyst and attributed to different types of coke; coke on and in the vicinity of the metal,coke on the carrier, and graphitic coke on the carrier.
          The amounts of these types were related to reaction conditions.
          The formation of the coke belonging to the first two peaks in the TPO profiles increases with temperature and partial pressure of propene.
          Hydrogen, on the other hand, suppresses the formation.
          The amount of coke that can be attributed to the third peak increases with temperature and propane partial pressure.
          A model is discussed where a minor part of the coke deactivates the catalyst.
          This coke is formed in parallel with the coke that is seen in the first two peaks in the TPO experiments.
          The graphitic coke formed on the carrier is not formed through this route.
          The experiments with different time on stream revealed that the first peak reached a constant level after about 15 h, while the second one still increased.
          Hydrogen was very efficient in preventing coke formation and deactivation but could not remove coke already formed on the catalyst.
          The hydrogenolysis and cracking mechanisms during the propane dehydrogenation are also discussed.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The composition of coke deposits in catalytic systems, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, varies across different reaction conditions and catalyst types. Three types of coke have been identified: coke on and in the vicinity of the metal, coke on the carrier, and graphitic coke on the carrier. The formation of the first two types of coke increases with temperature and partial pressure of propene, while hydrogen suppresses their formation. The amount of graphitic coke increases with temperature and propane partial pressure. A model suggests that only a minor part of the coke deactivates the catalyst, and this deactivating coke is formed in parallel with the other coke types. The graphitic coke on the carrier is formed through a separate mechanism. Experiments with different times on stream showed that the first type of coke reached a constant level after about 15 hours, while the second type continued to increase. Hydrogen was effective in preventing coke formation and deactivation but could not remove coke that had already formed on the catalyst. The mechanisms of hydrogenolysis and cracking during propane dehydrogenation were also discussed.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          在催化系统中，特别是在丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应中，焦炭沉积物的组成随不同的反应条件和催化剂类型而变化。已识别出三种类型的焦炭：金属附近和金属上的焦炭，载体上的焦炭，以及载体上的石墨化焦炭。前两种类型焦炭的形成随温度和丙烯分压的增加而增加，而氢气抑制了它们的形成。石墨化焦炭的量随温度和丙烷分压的增加而增加。一个模型表明，只有少量的焦炭会使催化剂失活，这种失活的焦炭与在TPO实验中观察到的前两种焦炭平行形成。载体上的石墨化焦炭是通过不同的机制形成的。不同时间流上的实验表明，第一种焦炭在大约15小时后达到恒定水平，而第二种焦炭继续增加。氢气在防止焦炭形成和失活方面非常有效，但不能去除已经沉积在催化剂上的焦炭。丙烷脱氢过程中氢解和裂解机制也被讨论了。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
