<quotes>

[1] "In this work, we present a comprehensive investigation of the physical properties of bulk NiO, of clean and CO-covered NiO100! surfaces, both using density-functional theory and using the DFT1U approach in which a Hubbard term describing the strong on-site Coulomb interactions is added to the density-functional Hamiltonian."
[2] "The comparison of the LSDA1U and SGGA1U for bulk NiO leads to the first important result: while in the LSDA1U approach it turns out to be difficult to achieve good agreement for all physical propertiesto fit the equi- librium volume and bulk modulus to experiment would require a substantially larger value of the on-site potential than required to fit the band gap or the magnetic moments consistent description with a physically reasonable value of U56.3 eV is achieved in the SGGA1U, which also improves the calculated binding energy."
[3] "A SGGA1U calculation also leads to a good description of the clean NiO surface."
[4] "The result that the Hubbard on-site term should be used best in conjunction with a gradient-corrected DFT functional confirms very recent results on the less strongly correlated transition-metal sulfides."
[5] "For bulk NiO we find that the SGGA1U description leads to similar results as calculations based on hybrid functionals mixing exact exchange to the SGGA functional."
[6] "In this case B3LYP predicts a reasonable Ni-C bond, but an almost unbound CO molecule."
[7] "Using CO on NiO surfaces as a testing ground, we have demonstrated that a DFT1U approach could provide not only a reasonable strategy for calculating not only the bulk properties of strongly correlated transition- metal compounds, but in addition lead to significant advances in the description of molecular adsorption on the surfaces of these important materials as well."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The DFT1U approach, which incorporates a Hubbard term to account for strong on-site Coulomb interactions, provides a more consistent and accurate description of the physical properties of bulk NiO, clean and CO-covered NiO100 surfaces, compared to traditional density-functional theory methods. The SGGA1U variant of this approach, in particular, leads to better predictions of the band gap, magnetic moments, and binding energies, as well as a good description of the clean NiO surface. This method also demonstrates its capability in accurately predicting the adsorption properties of CO on NiO surfaces, including the adsorption geometry and energy, in agreement with experimental data. The SGGA1U approach is found to be comparable to hybrid functional methods in describing bulk NiO properties, and the B3LYP functional predicts a reasonable Ni-C bond length for CO adsorption but an almost unbound CO molecule. Overall, the DFT1U approach offers a promising strategy for understanding the properties and behavior of strongly correlated transition-metal compounds and their surfaces.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
DFT1U方法，通过加入描述强局域电荷相互作用的Hubbard项，对NiO的体相、清洁和CO覆盖的NiO100表面的物理性质提供了更为一致且准确的描述，相比传统的密度泛函理论方法。特别是SGGA1U这一变种，在预测带隙、磁矩和结合能方面表现出更好的性能，并且能够很好地描述清洁的NiO表面。这种方法还展示了在NiO表面上CO吸附性质的准确预测能力，包括吸附几何结构和能量，与实验数据一致。SGGA1U方法在描述NiO体相性质上与混合函数方法相当，而B3LYP功能预测CO吸附时得到合理的Ni-C键长，但CO分子几乎不受束缚。总的来说，DFT1U方法为理解强相关过渡金属化合物及其表面的性质提供了一个有前景的策略。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
