<quotes>

[1] "Propene is exclusively formed from the surface reaction, while C1 and C2 products are formed via both channels."
[2] "The drastically different product distributions observed in the h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts imply that the reaction mechanisms are different in these two types of catalysts."
[3] "The results demonstrate that propene is mainly generated on the catalyst surface from the CH activation of propane, while C2 and C1 products can be formed via both surface-mediated and gas-phase pathways."
[4] "The integrated peak intensity of signals of various gas-phase components in the SVUV-PIMS spectra of the ODHP reaction catalyzed by BN-T-high sample was plotted as a function of temperature and shown in Figure2B."
[5] "With the increasing of reaction temperature from 500 to 600C, there was an obvious growth of the signals for C2H4, C2H6, and HCHO, whereas the integrated ion intensities of CH3., CH4, and COx increased slowly with the reaction temperature."
[6] "This similar growth trend of integrated ion intensities suggests that some of C1 and C2 products should be formed by the secondary gas-phase reaction of surface-generated methyl radicals."
[7] "Meanwhile, the main product, propene, is more likely formed on the catalyst surface, since no gas-phase propyl radicals were observed."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, which includes both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. Propene is exclusively formed from the surface reaction, while C1 and C2 products are formed via both surface-mediated and gas-phase pathways. The drastically different product distributions observed in the h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts imply that the reaction mechanisms are different in these two types of catalysts. The results demonstrate that propene is mainly generated on the catalyst surface from the CH activation of propane, while C2 and C1 products can be formed via both surface-mediated and gas-phase pathways. The integrated peak intensity of signals of various gas-phase components in the SVUV-PIMS spectra of the ODHP reaction catalyzed by BN-T-high sample was plotted as a function of temperature. With the increasing of reaction temperature from 500 to 600C, there was an obvious growth of the signals for C2H4, C2H6, and HCHO, whereas the integrated ion intensities of CH3., CH4, and COx increased slowly with the reaction temperature. This similar growth trend of integrated ion intensities suggests that some of C1 and C2 products should be formed by the secondary gas-phase reaction of surface-generated methyl radicals. Meanwhile, the main product, propene, is more likely formed on the catalyst surface, since no gas-phase propyl radicals were observed. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, as they can lead to higher selectivity and efficiency in the ODHP reaction.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在B基催化剂上的ODHP反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。丙烯仅从表面反应形成，而C1和C2产品则通过表面介导和气相途径形成。在h-BN和金属氧化物基催化剂中观察到的截然不同的产物分布表明，这两种催化剂的反应机制是不同的。结果表明，丙烯主要在催化剂表面从丙烷的CH活化中生成，而C2和C1产品可以通过表面介导和气相途径形成。在BN-T-high催化剂催化下，ODHP反应中各种气相组分的信号积分强度在SVUV-PIMS光谱中作为温度的函数绘制。随着反应温度从500到600C的增加，C2H4、C2H6和HCHO的信号有明显的增长，而CH3.、CH4和COx的积分离子强度随反应温度的增加而缓慢增加。这种积分离子强度的相似增长趋势表明，一些C1和C2产品应该是由表面生成的甲基自由基的二次气相反应形成的。同时，主要产品丙烯更可能在催化剂表面形成，因为没有观察到气相丙基自由基。表面和气相自由基反应的协同效应对于催化剂性能和设计优化有影响，因为它们可以导致ODHP反应中更高的选择性和效率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
