<quotes>

[1] "Now, the first direct experimental evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals (CH3.) in the ODHP reaction over boron-based catalysts is achieved by using online synchrotron vacuum ultraviolet photoionization mass spectroscopy (SVUV-PIMS), which uncovers the existence of gas-phase radical pathways."
[2] "The drastically different product distributions observed in the h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts imply that the reaction mechanisms are different in these two types of catalysts."
[3] "Propene is mainly generated on the catalyst surface from the CH activation of propane, while C2 and C1 products can be formed via both surface-mediated and gas-phase pathways."
[4] "The proposed mechanism bears similarities to other redox-poor oxides such as MgO,16 and shares their capacity for selective alkane conversions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, which includes both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. The direct experimental evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals (CH3.) in the ODHP reaction over boron-based catalysts, achieved by using online synchrotron vacuum ultraviolet photoionization mass spectroscopy (SVUV-PIMS), uncovers the existence of gas-phase radical pathways. This finding, combined with the drastically different product distributions observed in the h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts, implies that the reaction mechanisms are different in these two types of catalysts. Propene is mainly generated on the catalyst surface from the CH activation of propane, while C2 and C1 products can be formed via both surface-mediated and gas-phase pathways. The synergistic effects of these pathways have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, as they suggest that the reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts shares similarities with other redox-poor oxides such as MgO, and has the capacity for selective alkane conversions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硼基催化剂上ODHP反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。通过使用在线同步辐射真空紫外光电离质谱（SVUV-PIMS），在硼基催化剂上的ODHP反应中直接实验性地检测到气相甲基自由基（CH3.），揭示了气相自由基途径的存在。这一发现，结合在h-BN和金属氧化物基催化剂中观察到的截然不同的产物分布，表明这两种类型的催化剂的反应机制是不同的。丙烯主要在催化剂表面从丙烷的CH活化中生成，而C2和C1产物可以通过表面介导和气相途径形成。这些途径的协同效应对于催化剂性能和设计优化有影响，因为它们表明B基催化剂上的反应机制与MgO等其他还原性差的氧化物有相似之处，并具有选择性烷烃转化的能力。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
