<quotes>
Aluminium siting in the ZSM-5 framework by combination of high resolution 27Al NMR and DFT/MM calculations.
At least 12 out of the 24 distinguishable framework T-sites of ZSM-5 are occupied by Al in the set of the investigated zeolite samples.
A partial identification of the Al sites is possible. The calculated 27Al NMR shielding values were converted to 27Al isotropic chemical shifts using the experimental isotropic chemical shift of 60.0 ppm referenced to the aqueous solution of Al(NO3)3 and the corresponding calculated NMR shielding of 490.0 ppm of a silicon rich (Si/Al 38) chabazite structure zeolite as a secondary internal standard.
The Al siting in the zeolite framework governs the location of the active sites as well as their properties. This is important for both the acid catalyzed hydrocarbon syntheses as well as redox reactions.
The distribution of Al atoms over the indivi- dual T-sites of the ZSM-5 framework is examined. We found that a bare charged framework represents a realistic model for our calculations of the local geometry of AlO4 tetrahedra in fully hydrated, cation-containing silicon-rich zeolites.
Good agreement between calculated and measured 27Al isotropic chemical shifts is found and a partial assignment of observed resonances to specific crystallographic sites in ZSM-5 is made.
The 12 resonances identified in the spectra of Na-ZSM-5 samples represent a significant progress compared to previous studies.
The results shown in Table 3 and Fig. 4 clearly indicate a large variability in both sites occupied by Al atoms and the concentration of the Al atoms in these sites for the ZSM-5 samples studied.
Resonance I (hereafter R-I) corresponds to T20 and R-IV to T6. The pair R-II, R-III can be assigned to the T4, T8 pair. At the low-shielding end, two assignments are plausible.
Based on similar spacings and least deviations between calculated and observed isotropic chemical shifts a partial assignment of observed resonances to crystallo- graphic sites in ZSM-5 is possible.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. In the process of linear and cyclic alkane transformations, key intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes play crucial roles. The catalyst performance and selectivity in various alkane conversions are influenced by the formation and role of these intermediates. However, the specific details related to alkane metathesis catalysis are not provided in the literature, so the exact mechanisms and processes cannot be described in detail here.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
催化作用由硅负载的钽氢化物介导的烷烃互变异构涉及两种位点和单一位点方案。在线性和环状烷烃转化过程中，关键中间体如烯烃和金属环丁烷起着至关重要的作用。催化剂性能和各种烷烃转化的选择性受到这些中间体的形成和作用的影响。然而，与烷烃互变异构催化相关的具体机制和过程没有在文献中详细说明，因此无法在此处详细描述这些细节。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
