<quotes>

[1] "Mixed-metal oxide catalysts, often containing V as one of the elements, have been examined as candidates for the selective oxidation of alkanes. However, as seen in Table 3, such catalysts produce only small to moderate yields of the desired product. An exception is the work reported by Mitsubishi in which propane is oxidized to acrylic acid in yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. 80 This catalyst is even more effective in catalyzing the conversion of propane directly to acrylonitrile when the vapor-phase oxidation is run in the presence of ammonia. 81 Another example is the announcement by BP of a process to carry out the conversion of propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. 82 These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms."
[2] "DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed (see Figure 11).116 The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by providing active sites for the adsorption and activation of hydrocarbons. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism and H-abstraction are two mechanisms involved in these processes. In the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, the metal oxide catalyst is reduced by the hydrocarbon, forming a metal-carbon bond and releasing a water molecule. In H-abstraction, the metal center abstracts a hydrogen atom from the hydrocarbon, forming a metal-hydrogen bond and leaving a carbon-centered radical. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. DuPont commercialized a process using a recirculating fluidized bed with a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate catalyst. The catalyst is circulated between a riser reactor where it contacts butane and a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is reoxidized. This process achieves a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 10-15% in an anerobic environment compared to operation in a conventional fixed bed using air.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在多相催化中，氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过提供吸附和活化烃类的活性位点来促进C-H键的活化。Mars van Krevelen机制和H-抽象是这些过程中的两种机制。在Mars van Krevelen机制中，金属氧化物催化剂被烃类还原，形成金属-碳键并释放水分子。在H-抽象中，金属中心从烃类中抽象出一个氢原子，形成金属-氢键并留下一个碳中心的自由基。这些原理被应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐。杜邦公司商业化了一种使用循环流化床和特别配制的钒磷酸盐催化剂的工艺。催化剂在接触丁烷的上升反应器和再氧化的流化再生反应器之间循环。与使用空气的传统固定床操作相比，该工艺在无氧环境中实现了10-15%的马来酸酐选择性提高。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
