<quotes>

[1] "Mixed-metal oxide catalysts, often containing V as one of the elements, have been examined as candidates for the selective oxidation of alkanes. However, as seen in Table 3, such catalysts produce only small to moderate yields of the desired product. An exception is the work reported by Mitsubishi in which propane is oxidized to acrylic acid in yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. 80 This catalyst is even more effective in catalyzing the conversion of propane directly to acrylonitrile when the vapor-phase oxidation is run in the presence of ammonia. 81 Another example is the announcement by BP of a process to carry out the conversion of propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. 82 These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms."
[2] "DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed (see Figure 11).116 The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by providing active sites for the selective oxidation of alkanes. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism and H-abstraction are involved in these processes. For example, mixed-metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium have been used for the selective oxidation of alkanes. Mitsubishi reported that propane can be oxidized to acrylic acid with yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. BP also announced a process for converting propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms. DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed. The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. This process achieves a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 10-15% in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过提供活性位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化，用于选择性氧化烷烃。Mars van Krevelen机制和H-抽象参与这些过程。例如，含钒的混合金属氧化物催化剂已被用于选择性氧化烷烃。三菱报告说，丙烷可以在MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox配方的催化剂上氧化成丙烯酸，产率超过52%。BP还宣布了一种过程，用于将丙烷在VSbO4催化剂上转化为丙烯腈。这些结果表明，与钒相关的氧气的催化性质可以通过改变V原子周围环境来定制。杜邦公司商业化了一种过程，用于将丁烷转化为马来酸酐，使用循环流化床。催化剂是一种特别配制的钒磷酸盐，从与丁烷接触的上升反应器循环到然后重新氧化的流化再生反应器。与在使用空气的常规固定床操作相比，该过程在无氧环境中实现了10-15%的马来酸酐选择性提高。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
