<quotes>

[1] "Mixed-metal oxide catalysts, often containing V as one of the elements, have been examined as candidates for the selective oxidation of alkanes. However, as seen in Table 3, such catalysts produce only small to moderate yields of the desired product. An exception is the work reported by Mitsubishi in which propane is oxidized to acrylic acid in yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. 80 This catalyst is even more effective in catalyzing the conversion of propane directly to acrylonitrile when the vapor-phase oxidation is run in the presence of ammonia. 81 Another example is the announcement by BP of a process to carry out the conversion of propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. 82 These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms."
[2] "DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed (see Figure 11).116 The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by providing active sites for the adsorption and activation of hydrocarbons. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the transfer of oxygen from the oxide lattice to the adsorbed hydrocarbon, leading to the formation of a metal-oxo species and the release of a carbonaceous product. H-abstraction mechanisms involve the direct abstraction of hydrogen atoms from the hydrocarbon by the metal center, leading to the formation of a metal-hydride species and a carbon-centered radical. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. DuPont commercialized a process using a recirculating fluidized bed reactor and a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate catalyst. The catalyst is circulated between a riser reactor where it contacts butane and a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is reoxidized. This process achieves a 10-15% improvement in maleic anhydride selectivity in an anerobic environment compared to conventional fixed-bed reactors using air.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过提供吸附和活化烃类的活性位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从氧化物晶格向吸附的烃类转移氧，形成金属-氧物种并释放碳产物。H-抽象机制涉及金属中心直接从烃类中抽提氢原子，形成金属-氢物种和碳中心自由基。这些原理应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐。杜邦公司采用循环流化床反应器和特别配制的钒磷酸盐催化剂，实现了这一过程的商业化。催化剂在接触丁烷的上升反应器和再氧化的流化再生反应器之间循环。与使用空气的传统固定床反应器相比，该过程在无氧环境中实现了10-15%的马来酸酐选择性提高。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
