<quotes>

[1] "Mixed-metal oxide catalysts, often containing V as one of the elements, have been examined as candidates for the selective oxidation of alkanes. However, as seen in Table 3, such catalysts produce only small to moderate yields of the desired product. An exception is the work reported by Mitsubishi in which propane is oxidized to acrylic acid in yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. 80 This catalyst is even more effective in catalyzing the conversion of propane directly to acrylonitrile when the vapor-phase oxidation is run in the presence of ammonia. 81 Another example is the announcement by BP of a process to carry out the conversion of propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. 82 These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms."
[2] "DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed (see Figure 11).116 The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air. In addition, since no oxygen is present with the hydrocarbon, much higher concentrations of maleic anhydride can be obtained, resulting in significantly lower downstream investments."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by providing active sites for the adsorption and activation of hydrocarbons. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the transfer of oxygen from the oxide support to the hydrocarbon, leading to the formation of an oxygen vacancy on the oxide surface. This process can be followed by the adsorption of another hydrocarbon molecule, which can then undergo H-abstraction by the oxygen vacancy, leading to the formation of a hydroxyl group and a new oxygen vacancy. This mechanism is involved in the selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride. DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed. The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air. In addition, since no oxygen is present with the hydrocarbon, much higher concentrations of maleic anhydride can be obtained, resulting in significantly lower downstream investments.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过提供吸附和活化烃类的活性位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从氧化物载体向烃类转移氧，导致氧化物表面形成氧空位。这一过程可以被另一烃类分子的吸附所跟随，该分子随后可以被氧空位进行H-抽象，导致形成羟基和新的氧空位。这一机制涉及选择性氧化烷烃，如丁烷转化为马来酸酐。杜邦公司商业化了一种将丁烷转化为马来酸酐的工艺，使用循环流化床。催化剂是一种特别配制的钒磷酸盐，从与丁烷接触的上升反应器循环到然后被再氧化的流化再生反应器。通过这种方式，在无氧环境中实现了1015%的马来酸酐选择性提高，与使用空气的常规固定床操作相比。此外，由于没有氧气与烃类共存，可以得到更高浓度的马来酸酐，从而显著降低下游投资。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
