<quotes>
[1] "In the case of oxide surfaces, this interaction: (a) is surprisingly strong (of the order of 1 eV or more); (b) takes place through the oxide, as opposed to a bond formation between the acid and the base; (c) is universal (we found no exception); and (d) explains a large number of computational results for systems that seem to have no relationship with each other."
[2] "Removing an oxygen atom from an oxide surface (to make an oxygen vacancy) leaves behind two unpaired electrons. The properties of the oxygen vacancies and the fate of the unpaired electrons left behind have been the subject of many calculations (12, 19, 24, 37-62) and some experiments. (62-64)"
[3] "If the observations listed above are explained by the acidbase interaction, similar results should be obtained for other acids with the same bases."
[4] "According to our rules, the dissociative adsorption energy of Br2 (to form two adsorbed Br atoms) will benefit substantially if one atom binds to a surface site on which it is a Lewis acid and the other binds to a site where it is a Lewis base."
[5] "The energy of the reaction Br2 + La2O3  (BrLa, BrO)/La2O3 is 0.40 eV (not the 0.2 eV estimated above by assuming that the two Br atoms do not interact)."
[6] "The binding energy of Au on an ultrathin MgO film supported on a metal increases as the work function of the metal decreases."
[7] "The binding energy of Au on an ultrathin MgO film supported on a metal increases as the work function of the metal decreases."
[8] "Making a vacancy on the surface of La2O3(001) requires 6.44 eV. (46) Doping with Cu reduces this number to 0.52 eV, doping with Zn to 2.01 eV, and doping with Mg to 2.59 eV."
[9] "The energy of making an oxygen vacancy in NiO(011) is 3.28 eV, and it is 4.13 eV for Nb-doped NiO, 4.25 eV for Ti-doped NiO, and 4.6 eV for Al-doped NiO."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. In the case of oxide surfaces, the interaction between a Lewis acid-base pair is strong, occurring through the oxide rather than direct bonding between the acid and base. This interaction is universal and can explain computational results for unrelated systems.

2. Oxygen vacancies, created by removing an oxygen atom, leave behind two unpaired electrons. Their properties and impact on the surface have been extensively studied through calculations and experiments.

3. The acid-base interaction can explain similar outcomes for other acids when paired with the same bases.

4. The dissociative adsorption of Br2 forms a Lewis acid-base pair on the surface, leading to a significant energy benefit.

5. The actual energy of the reaction for dissociative adsorption of Br2 on La2O3 is 0.40 eV, contrary to initial estimations.

6. Doping an oxide surface with a metal reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation.

7. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation on an ultrathin MgO film increases with the work function of the supporting metal.

8. Doping La2O3(001) with different metals significantly reduces the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation.

9. Doping NiO(011) surfaces with different high-valence dopants increases the energy for oxygen vacancy formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对于氧化物表面，酸碱对之间的相互作用很强，发生在通过氧化物而不是酸和碱直接结合。这种相互作用是普遍的，并且可以解释与各个系统无关的计算结果。

2. 去掉氧原子形成空位后，会留下两个未配对的电子。它们的性质及其对表面的影响已经通过大量的计算和实验进行了深入研究。

3. 当与相同的基团配对时，酸碱相互作用可以解释其他酸的结果。

4. 溴2的离解吸附在表面上形成一个酸碱对，导致能量显著增加。

5. 分离溴2反应的实际能量为0.40 eV，与最初的估计不符。

6. 在氧化物表面上掺杂金属可以降低形成氧空位所需的能量。

7. 在金属支持的超薄MgO薄膜上，氧化物表面的空位形成能量随支撑金属的工作函数增加。

8. 对La2O3(001)表面进行不同金属掺杂显著降低了空位形成所需的能量。

9. 对NiO(011)表面进行不同高价掺杂增加了空位形成所需的能量。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
