<quotes>
[1] "Since catalytic processes are generally quite complex, little is known about the individual steps that take place at the molecular level in such systems."
[2] "The conversion of hydrocarbons in particular is at the heart of the refining of crude oil, the modification of fat in food industries, and the synthesis of pharmaceutical products and fine chemicals."
[3] "The activation of those compounds is believed to occur through an initial C-H bond scission step that results in the formation of alkyl groups on the surface."
[4] "However, since that reaction often displays quite low probabilities, catalytic processes need to be performed under fairly severe prmsure and temperature conditions in order to reach reasonable conversion rates."
[5] "One way to make C-H bond breaking reactions easier under vacu- um is by using open surfaces with low-coordination metal atoms, because those sites tend to display higher reativity."
[6] "Alternatively, supersonic beams can be used to deliver gas molecules having the high energies needed for their ativation."
[7] "Several approaches have been taken in order to ov- ercome the difficulties mentioned above."
[8] "High pressures are not easy to reproduce in the vacuum environments normally used in surface science studies, and in addition, they tend to accelerate the conversion of alkyl groups into other species, making the steady- state concentration of those intermediates on the cat- alyst surface too low to be detected."
[9] "In spite of the recent technological advances mentioned above, the details of the processes involved in the conversion of saturated hydrocarbons are still not well understood."
[10] "It is well- known that alkyl radicals can be efficiently prepared in either gas or liquid phases by activating suitable precursors such as alkyl halides, azo compounds, and peroxide."
[11] "Alkyl halides are particularly good can- didates for studies on surfaces because they are easy to prepare and to handle under vacuum and because they have already been shown to undergo oxidative addition reactions in solution to form organometallic products with alkyl ligands attached directly to the metal center."
[12] "Single crystals are often chosen as substrates because their surfaces can be characterized in more detail than those of poly- crystalline samples."
[13] "Chemisorption of Alkyl Halides The chemisorption of alkyl halides has already been studied on a wide variety of surfaces (Table I)."
[14] "Three main pieces of evidence support that conclusion: First, de- sorption of intact molecules can be thermally driven from most surfaces even at coverages below saturation; second,ion bombardment of those surfaces at low tem- peratures yields secondary ions with molecular stoi- chiometry; and finally, the vibrational spectra of the chemisorbed species are quite similar to those of the original molecules."
[15] "XPS experiments indicate that bonding to the surface occurs through the halogen end of the molecule: the binding energies of electrons associated with the halide atom shift by up to 1 eV upon chemisorption while the values for the C 1s electrons remain u n a f f e  t e d .'"
[16] "An example of this behavior is illustrated by the RAIRS spectra of ethyl bromide adsorbed on Pt(ll1) shown in Figure 1 :while at low coverages, the methyl groups are oriented parallel to the surface;they rearrange to a perpendicular configuration upon further exposure."
[17] "Formation of Surface Alkyl Groups The carbon-halogen bond in alkyl halides adsorbed on metal surfaces can be broken easily either thermally or photolytically."
[18] "The photochemistry of these systems has been studied in detail by Professor White at the University of Texas, Austin;@ he has found that the C-X bond can be dissociated on surfaces by exposing them to ultraviolet light of lower energy than that needed in the gas phase."
[19] "Thermal activation is equally effective in driving this step: the energy required to break the C-I bond on Ni(100) surfaces was measured to be less t h a n"
[20] "For instance, methyl chloride decomposes only over iron or tungsten surfaces while desorbing molecularly from silver, copper, plati- num, palladium, or nickel substrates; methyl bromide does react on nickel but not on silver or platinum; and methyl iodide dissociates on all single-crystal surfaces studied to date."
[21] "The initial carbon-halogen bond dissociation in alkyl halides leads to the formation of chemisorbed alkyl moieties."
[22] "Surface alkyl groups can undergo further transfor- mations at higher temperatures by following a series of dehydrogenation, hydrogenation, H-D exchange, and polymerization reactions."
[23] "Dehydrogenation steps are evidenced by the substantial desorption of hydrogen that is always detected in TPD experiments."
[24] "For instance, the vibrational data obtained from the thermal activation of methyl iodide on Pt(ll1) indicate that methyl groups are converted into methylene between 240 and 280 K (Figure 2)?'"
[25] "The mechanism for the dehydrogenation of ethyl groups is more complex than in the case of methyl moieties because of the existence of two different carbon atoms within each molecule."
[26] "Such @-hydrogen elimination is in fact well-known in organo- metallic chemistry and has also been shown to be the preferred dehydrogenation pathway for longer alkyl chains on surfaces."
[27] "The thermal desorption of hydrogenation products is also quite common in these alkyl halide systems: the yield for methane formation amounts to about 75% of the methyl iodide initially chemisorbed on Pt(111)% and to close to 50% in the case of Ni(100),15 and significant although smaller numbers are obtained in experiments with ethyl iodide."
[28] "There are a few other subtle differences in peak shapes between the two spectra, but the striking similarities observed point to the conclusion that iodine atom codeposited during ethyl iodide decomposition do not alter the electronic structure of the metal surface significantly."
[29] "One of the best examples for this behavior is provided by results from methane thermal desorption from saturation coverages of methyl iodide on Pt(lll),where the main 300 K TPD peak is entirely replaced by a new feature at 275 K upon hydrogen predoing."
[30] "CHI and CHBD from direct reductive elimination of methyl groups by either adsorbed hydrogen or deuterium account for about 85% of a l l the desorbing methane, but the remaining 15% consista of molecules that have undergone one or more H-D exchange steps, and from those up to 8% correspond to CD4 formation."
[31] "To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that reversible hydrogenation-dehydro- genation reactions have been observed in hydrocarbons adsorbed on single-crystal surfaces under vacuum, a result that proves that alkyl groups generated by the dissociation of alkyl halides can be used to model cat- alytic processes which take place under atmospheric conditions."
[32] "The use of alkyl halides as precursors for alkyl for- mation on surfaces is in its infancy."
[33] "Furthermore, the extension of this methodology to the synthesis of other hydrocarbon groups such as methylene, vinyl, and allyl species should also be explored."
[34] "Finally, dimerization products have been reported to form from methyl halides on Ru(100),I1 Pd(lW),l4 Cu- (110),31 and foils of other transition metals,40 as well as from ethyl and propyl moieties on Ag(111).34*35"
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by undergoing reactions such as the Mars van Krevelen mechanism and H-abstraction. These reactions involve the transfer of hydrogen from the metal surface to the C-H bond, thereby weakening it and making it more susceptible to breaking. This process is crucial in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as converting butane to maleic anhydride, as it enables the selective activation and subsequent transformation of alkane molecules.

2. The conversion of hydrocarbons is central to various industries including crude oil refining, fat modification in food, and pharmaceutical and fine chemical synthesis. The activation of hydrocarbons typically begins with a C-H bond scission step, leading to the formation of alkyl groups on the surface of catalysts. However, achieving efficient conversion rates often necessitates high pressures and temperatures, as these conditions enhance the probability of bond breaking reactions.

3. Alternative methods to overcome challenges in C-H bond activation under vacuum conditions include utilizing open surfaces with low-coordination metal atoms, which exhibit higher reactivity, or employing supersonic beams to deliver high-energy gas molecules directly to the surface. These strategies aim to make bond-breaking reactions more feasible under vacuum conditions, thus facilitating the study of heterogeneous catalytic processes.

4. High pressures are difficult to achieve in the vacuum environments typically used in surface science studies. They can accelerate the conversion of alkyl groups into other species, leading to a decrease in the steady-state concentration of intermediates on the catalyst surface, making detection challenging. Despite recent technological advancements, the specifics of the conversion processes of saturated hydrocarbons remain largely unknown.

5. Alkyl radicals can be efficiently prepared from gas or liquid phases using suitable precursors such as alkyl halides, azo compounds, and peroxides. Alkyl halides are particularly advantageous for surface studies due to their ease of preparation, handling under vacuum conditions, and their demonstrated ability to undergo oxidative addition reactions in solution, forming organometallic compounds with alkyl ligands attached to the metal center.

6. Single crystal substrates are preferred for their superior surface characterization capabilities compared to polycrystalline samples. The surfaces of single crystals can be meticulously cleaned under vacuum conditions through chemical treatments or ion bombardment-annealing cycles, ensuring highly defined systems for experimentation.

7. The chemisorption of alkyl halides on various surfaces has been extensively studied, yielding valuable insights into the nature of adsorption. Evidence supporting molecular adsorption includes the thermal desorption of intact molecules, secondary ion mass spectrometry with molecular stoichiometry, and vibrational spectra closely resembling those of the original molecules.

8. Bonding to the surface occurs predominantly through the halogen end of the molecule, as indicated by shifts in the binding energies of electrons associated with the halide atom upon chemisorption. The molecular axes of hydrocarbon fragments also undergo orientation changes as the coverage increases.

9. Formation of surface alkyl groups can be triggered either thermally or photolytically, depending on the conditions. Photocatalysis has been explored by researchers like Professor White, who have demonstrated the dissociation of C-X bonds on surfaces exposed to ultraviolet light with lower energy requirements than in gas-phase reactions.

10. The ease of bond breaking varies across different alkyl halides, with methyl chloride reacting primarily over iron or tungsten surfaces while desorbing molecularly from silver, copper, platinum, palladium, or nickel substrates. Methyl bromide reacts on nickel but not on silver or platinum, while methyl iodide dissociates on all studied single-crystal surfaces.

11. The initial step in alkyl halide conversion involves the C-H bond scission, leading to the formation of alkyl moieties on the surface. This process is crucial for initiating the subsequent series of transformations, including dehydrogenation, hydrogenation, hydrogen-deuterium exchange, and polymerization reactions.

12. Dehydrogenation steps are evident in the substantial desorption of hydrogen detected in thermally programmed desorption (TPD) experiments. The process typically unfolds in stages, indicating the sequential formation of various stable intermediates at different temperatures.

13. The dehydrogenation of ethyl groups exhibits a more intricate mechanism due to the presence of two distinct carbon atoms within each molecule. The preferred dehydrogenation pathway involves hydrogen elimination from the methyl end of the ethyl groups, resulting in the formation of adsorbed ethylene.

14. The thermal desorption of hydrogenation products is common in alkyl halide systems, with methane formation accounting for approximately 75% of the initially chemisorbed methyl iodide on Pt(111), and nearly 50% in the case of Ni(100). Ethyl iodide experiments yield smaller but still significant numbers.

15. The striking similarity between spectra from ethyl iodide decomposition and direct ethylene adsorption on surfaces points to the conclusion that the electronic structure of the metal surface remains largely unchanged, despite the presence of iodine atoms during decomposition.

16. Reversible hydrogenation-dehydrogenation reactions have been observed in hydrocarbons adsorbed on single-crystal surfaces under vacuum conditions. This finding validates the use of alkyl groups generated by alkyl halide dissociation for modeling catalytic processes occurring under atmospheric conditions.

17. The use of alkyl halides as precursors for alkyl formation on surfaces is still in its early stages. However, exploring the synthesis of other hydrocarbon groups, such as methylene, vinyl, and allyl species, represents a promising avenue for future research.

18. The formation of dimerization products from methyl halides on Ru(100), Pd(100), Cu(110), and other transition metals, along with ethyl and propyl moieties on Ag(111), demonstrates the potential for diverse reaction pathways leading to hydrocarbon synthesis.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 隔离的金属中心在氧化物材料上促进了异相催化中的C-H键活化，通过进行如马斯范克雷文伦机制和H-摘除等反应。这些反应涉及从金属表面向C-H键转移氢，从而削弱它并使其更容易断裂。这一过程对于烷烃的选择性氧化至关重要，例如将丁烷转化为马来酸酐，因为它允许选择性激活并随后转化烷烃分子。

2. 特别是，将碳氢化合物转化为石油精炼、脂肪改性在食品工业以及制药和精细化学品合成的核心。碳氢化合物的激活通常始于C-H键裂解步骤，导致表面形成烷基团。然而，为了实现合理的转化率，往往需要高压和高温，因为这些条件可以增加反应的可能性。

3. 为了克服真空条件下激活C-H键的挑战，可以使用具有低配位金属原子的开放表面或超声波束直接向表面传递高能气体分子。这些策略旨在使真空条件下更可行的键断开反应，从而促进异相催化过程的研究。

4. 在真空环境中实现高压力是困难的，它们可能会加速烷基团转化为其他物种，导致催化剂表面上中间体的稳态浓度降低，从而难以检测。尽管最近的技术进步，饱和碳氢化合物的具体转换过程仍然未知。

5. 可以从气体或液体状态高效准备的烷基自由基可以通过激活合适的前体（如烷基卤化物、偶氮化合物和过氧化物）来制备。烷基卤化物特别适合表面研究，因为它们易于在真空条件下准备和处理，并且已经显示出在溶液中进行氧化性添加反应，形成直接连接到金属中心的烷基配体的有机金属化合物。

6. 单晶片通常被选作其表面可以比多晶样品更详细地表征的基底。通过化学处理或离子轰击退火循环清洁单晶片表面，确保在真空条件下进行高度定义的实验。

7. 烷基卤化物在各种表面上的化学吸附已经进行了广泛的研究，提供了关于吸附性质的重要见解。支持分子吸附的证据包括热脱附的完整分子，次级离子质谱的分子摩尔数，以及与原始分子非常相似的振动光谱。

8. 分子吸附发生在通过卤素端的分子，这表明在化学吸附时与卤素原子相关的电子的结合能发生高达1 eV的变化，而C 1s电子的值保持不变。这种行为在Pt（111）表面上乙基溴的反射吸收红外光谱中得到了说明：在低覆盖度下，甲基组分平行于表面排列；在进一步暴露后，它们重新排列为垂直配置。

9. 表面烷基群的形成可以通过热或光解容易地激活，具体取决于条件。白教授等人对这些系统进行了详细的研究，发现可以通过暴露表面到紫外线光，其能量低于气体状态下所需的能量，来分解C-X键。

10. 不同的烷基卤化物反应性差异很大，甲基氯主要在铁或钨表面上反应，而以分子形式从银、铜、铂、钯或镍基底上脱落。甲基溴仅在镍上反应，但不在银或铂上，而甲基碘在所有研究的单晶表面上都可分解。

11. 烷基卤化物转化的第一个步骤涉及C-H键裂解，导致表面形成烷基分子。这个过程对于随后的一系列转变至关重要，包括脱氢、加氢、氢氘交换和聚合反应。

12. 脱氢步骤在热程序化脱附（TPD）实验中很明显，表现为氢的大规模脱附。该过程通常分为几个阶段，表明不同温度下形成各种稳定的中间体。

13. 乙烯基乙基组的脱氢过程更为复杂，因为每个分子内有两个不同的碳原子。从甲基端开始的氢消除是已知的有机金属化学中的首选脱氢途径，并且在表面上的长烷基链上也显示出类似的路径。

14. 烷基化产物的热脱附在烷基卤化物系统中很常见，甲烷形成约占初始化学吸附的甲基碘在Pt（111）上的约75%，而在Ni（100）上约为50%。乙基碘实验产生较小但仍然显著的数量。

15. 从乙基碘分解和直接乙烷吸附的光谱之间观察到的惊人相似性表明，金属表面的电子结构在碘原子分解期间基本保持不变，尽管分解过程中存在碘原子。

16. 在真空条件下，在单晶表面上观察到可逆的氢化-脱氢反应，这是在大气条件下催化过程的验证，证明了由烷基卤化物分解产生的烷基团可以用于模拟模型。

17. 将烷基卤化物用作表面烷基形成前体的方法仍处于初级阶段。然而，探索合成其他碳氢化合物，如甲基、乙烯和丙烯基物种的方法，代表了一个有前景的研究方向。

18. 从Ru（100）、Pd（100）、Cu（110）和其他过渡金属的甲基卤化物，以及Ag（111）上的乙基和丙基物种形成的二聚体产物显示了多样化的反应途径，导致碳氢化合物合成。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
