<quotes>
This article was published as part of the In-situ characterization of heterogeneous catalysts themed issue
Please take a look at the issue 12 2010 table of contents to access other reviews in this themed issue
Downloaded by University of Toronto on 21 November 2012 Published on 29 October 2010 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/B919543M View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue 4928 Chem. Soc. Rev., 2010, 39, 49284950 This journal is c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2010 Analysing and understanding the active site by IR spectroscopyw Alexandre Vimont, Fre de ric Thibault-Starzyk and Marco Daturi*

Introduction Heterogeneous catalysis is finding an increasing importance in everyday life. The industrial heterogeneous catalysts are shaped multifunctional devices intended to offer to the reacting agents a multitude of active sites, distributed on the external surface or inside the porosity of the materials, in order to optimise the contact between the reacting molecule and the transformation centre in the sense of the Sabatiers principle.

On these sites the reacting molecules are adsorbed, the inter- mediates are generated and the products formed. Physically,the active centres are the sites where the reaction crosses the energy barrier, as classically represented in Fig. 1.

Therefore, the active sites are intrinsically linked with the intermediate species and they can be affected by the poisons which can be formed during the reaction. An accurate design of the active sites (in terms of quality, strength, position, . . .) is obviously the key to obtain the optimum catalyst. On the way to catalyst optimisation and rational design, we have to thoroughly characterize the active sites, particularly when in action, considering that they are not static entities, but they undergo modifications depending on the reaction conditions and surface restructuration phenomena.

For this purpose, IR spectroscopy is one of the most adapted tools, being extremely sensitive to the molecular vibrations and able to discriminate the different geometrical distortions of the molecules according to the adsorption state on a site.

In this contribution, we will present how it is possible to evidence the adsorption sites on a catalyst, particularly using Laboratoire Catalyse et Spectrochimie, ENSICAEN, Universite de Caen, CNRS, 6 Bd Mare chal Juin, F-14050 Caen, France. E-mail: marco.daturi@ensicaen.fr; Fax: +33-231452822; Tel: +33-231452730 w Part of the themed issue covering recent advances in the in-situ characterization of heterogeneous catalysts.

Alexandre Vimont Alexandre Vimont (born 1972, France) received his PhD in 2000 from the University of Caen in the field of in situ and operando infrared spectro- scopy applied to catalysis,under the supervision of Jean- Claude Lavalley and Fre deric Thibaut-Starzyk.

He then joined the laboratoire Catalyse et Spectrochimie as a permanent CNRS research engineer. His current research interests focus on the comprehension at the molecular scale of the adsorp- tion sites in acid materials and in particular in metal organic frameworks, using in situ and operando Infrared spectroscopy.

Fre de ric Thibault-Starzyk Fre de ric Thibault-Starzyk was born in Saint-Lo (France) in 1965. He received his PhD
in synthetic organic chemistry in 1992 from the University of Caen.

After post-doctoral work with Pierre Jacobs at the University of Leuven, he became Charge de Recherche (1995) and Director of Research in the CNRS (2009) at the Catalysis and Spectrochemistry Laboratory. In 20034, he was an overseas fellow, Churchill College, working with David King at the Chemistry Depart- ment, University of Cambridge. His research interests are in heterogeneous catalysis and infrared spectroscopy, including operando spectroscopy, time resolved measurements, and new spectroscopic approaches for the characterisation of solids and zeolites.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This article discusses the use of infrared spectroscopy in analyzing and understanding the active sites of heterogeneous catalysts. It explains that the active sites on the catalyst surfaces are linked to the intermediates and can be affected by poisons that may form during reactions. The article also mentions that the active sites are not static and can change based on reaction conditions and surface restructuration phenomena. The authors emphasize the importance of thoroughly characterizing these active sites during the reaction, as they play a key role in catalyst optimization and rational design. The Laboratoire Catalyse et Spectrochimie, ENSICAEN, Université de Caen, CNRS, in France, is highlighted as a center that uses in situ and operando infrared spectroscopy to understand the adsorption sites on catalysts, focusing on acid materials and metal organic frameworks.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文讨论了红外光谱在分析和理解异质催化剂活性位点中的应用。文章解释了催化剂表面的活性位点与中间体之间的联系，以及它们可能受到反应中形成的毒物的影响。文章还提到，活性位点不是静态的，它们会根据反应条件和表面重构现象而发生变化。作者强调，在反应过程中彻底表征这些活性位点对于催化剂优化和理性设计至关重要。法国ENSICAEN大学、Caen大学和CNRS的Catalyse et Spectrochimie实验室被提及，该实验室使用原位和操作红外光谱来理解催化剂上的吸附位点，重点关注酸性材料和金属有机框架。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
