<quotes>

[1] "Bimetallic catalysts composed of two metals can form effective catalysts even if they do not mix to form an alloy."
[2] "We found significant evidence for interaction not only between ruthenium and copper but also between other group VIII and group IB metals."
[3] "The periodic table provided a framework for our studies, with elements in the same group showing similar chemical behavior and those across a period exhibiting systematic variations in properties."
[4] "We measured the activities of metals in three periods that include the first, second and third transition series, focusing on the metals in group VIA through group VIII to group lB."
[5] "Precise data on the activity of gold, the group IB metal immediately following platinum in this series, are not available."
[6] "In contrast to hydrogenolysis, this reaction consists in rupturing the carbon-hydrogen bonds of hydrocarbons and removing hydrogen, a process that leads to the formation of other hydrocarbons."
[7] "The presence of copper can therefore influence the selectivity of a group VIII metal whether or not the copper mixes with the metal."
[8] "We found significant results in the aspect of our research concerned with the preparation and characterization of bimetallic clusters."
[9] "X-ray absorption spectroscopy has provided workers with a valuable physical probe for obtaining information on the structures of bimetallic clusters."
[10] "The decline in absorption persists until the energy of the X rays becomes high enough to excite electrons out of the next-lower energy state characteristic of atoms in the sample material."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Bimetallic catalysts composed of two metals can form effective catalysts even if they do not mix to form an alloy.

2.There is significant evidence for interaction not only between ruthenium and copper but also between other group VIII and group IB metals.

3.A periodic table framework guided our studies, with elements in the same group showing similar chemical behavior and those across a period exhibiting systematic variations in properties.

4.We measured the activities of metals in three periods that include the first, second, and third transition series, focusing on the metals in group VIA through group VIII to group lB.

5.Precise data on the activity of gold, the group IB metal immediately following platinum in this series, are not available.

6.In contrast to hydrogenolysis, the dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons consists in rupturing the carbon-hydrogen bonds of hydrocarbons and removing hydrogen, leading to the formation of other hydrocarbons.

7.The presence of copper can influence the selectivity of a group VIII metal whether or not the copper mixes with the metal.

8.Significant results were found in the aspect of our research concerning the preparation and characterization of bimetallic clusters.

9.X-ray absorption spectroscopy has provided a valuable physical probe for obtaining information on the structures of bimetallic clusters.

10.The decline in absorption continues until the energy of the X rays becomes high enough to excite electrons out of the next-lower energy state characteristic of atoms in the sample material.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.两种金属组成的双金属催化剂即使不形成合金也能形成有效的催化剂。

2.我们发现了铜和钌之间，以及其它第VIII族和第IB族金属之间的显著相互作用证据。

3.元素周期表为我们的研究提供了框架，同一组的元素表现出相似的化学行为，而横跨一个周期的元素则在性质上表现出系统的变化。

4.我们在包括第一、第二和第三过渡系列的三个时期测量了金属的活性，重点关注了VIa族至VIII族到IB族的金属。

5.关于铂族之后的IB族金属黄金的具体活性数据是不可用的。

6.与氢解反应相反，脱氢反应涉及断裂烃碳氢键并移除氢，从而形成其他烃类。

7.铜的存在可以影响第VIII族金属的选择性，无论铜是否与金属混合。

8.在我们关于双金属簇的制备和表征的研究方面，我们获得了重要的结果。

9.X射线吸收光谱提供了一种有价值的物理探针，用于获取双金属簇结构的信息。

10.X射线吸收系数的下降持续直到X射线能量足以激发原子中下一个较低能级的电子。
