I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Bimetallic Catalysts Chemical reaction rates are controlled by varying the composition of miniscule clusters of metal atoms. Such clusters are now employed in petroleum refining and may have a number of other applications
I
n 1817 the English chemist Sir Humphrey Davy discovered a re .' markable property of platinum.He found that in the presence of that metal oxygen reacts readily, often ex plosively, with other gases such as hydrogen, carbon monoxide and var ious volatile hydrocarbons. Such re actions can occur in spite of the fact that the initial temperature of the gas es and of the platinum may be far low er than that required for ignition in the absence of platinum. The platinum induced combustion reactions, which yield water and carbon dioxide as products, do not consume the plati num. The work of Davy provided an example of the phenomenon of ca talysis, a term (meaning "loosening" in Greek) introduced by the Swedish chemist Jons Jakob Berzelius in 1836.
Although Berzelius recognized the im portance of catalytic phenomena in chemistry, a lack of understanding of the basic principles involved hindered progress for many years. A major ad vance took place in about 1900 when the German chemist Wilhelm Ostwald proposed that a catalyst can influence only the rate of a chemical reaction; a chemical change occurring in the pres ence of a catalyst must also be capable of occurring in the absence of a cata lyst, although at a much lower rate.Ostwald's insight paved the way for the widespread investigation and ap plication of catalytic phenomena. Cat alytic processes now provide the ba sic technology for the manufacture of a host of vitally important materi als, ranging from fertilizers to synthet ic fibers and petroleum products such as gasoline and heating oil. Work done by my colleagues and me over the past two decades at the Exxon Research Laboratories has contributed to these applications and to an understanding of catalysts. We have focused our ef forts on bimetallic catalysts (catalysts composed of two metals). We found 90 by John H. Sinfelt that in situations where a molecule can undergo several different reactions bi metallic catalysts often eliminate un desirable reactions and maximize the desired one. We also found that two metallic elements can form an effec tive bimetallic catalyst even if they do not mix with each other to form an alloy. Finally, we discovered a new class of catalysts containing bimetallic clusters. The clusters are often 10 to 50 angstrom units in size (an angstrom unit is a ten-billionth of a meter).Bimetallic clusters have already had a major impact on petroleum refin ing. We found that a catalyst contain ing platinum-iridium clusters leads to a higher rate of formation of high octane-number gasoline components (aromatic hydrocarbons such as tolu ene and xylenes) than do earlier cata lysts containing pure platinum clus ters. The higher the octane number of a gasoline, the greater the resistance to "knock" in.an internal-combustion engine. Knock is a detonation that in terferes with the smooth combustion of the fuel; the result is a decrease in the power output of the engine. Aug menting the amount of aromatic hy drocarbons in gasoline provides an al ternative to the use of tetraethyl lead for obtaining high octane numbers.
Our bimetallic catalyst, both by itself and in combination with other cata lysts, has consequently been a key fac tor in making "low lead" and "lead free" gasolines feasible.
T
hroughout the course of our work we have employed a form of catal ysis known as heterogeneous catalysis,in which the reacting molecules are present in a phase separate from that of the catalyst. (In homogeneous catal ysis, in contrast, the catalyst and the reacting molecules are present in the same phase, commonly in a liquid so lution.) In a typical situation in hetero geneous catalysis a fluid phase (often a gas) flows through a bed of catalyst particles. One widely employed type of catalyst consists of particles of a porous material, known as a carrier,in which submicroscopic metal clus ters are embedded. Depending on the application, the particles could range in size from a couple of tenths of a mil limeter to several millimeters. The material constituting the bulk of the particles is often an oxide such as alu mina (AhOs) or silica (Si02) contain ing a network of pores. The pores have an average diameter of about 100 ang stroms. The metal clusters reside on the walls of the pores and therefore must be smaller than the pores.
As the gas flows through the cata lyst bed, reactant molecules diffuse into the pores of the particles and are adsorbed onto the surfaces of the met al clusters. In the chemisorption, or chemical adsorption, of a reactant molecule on a metal cluster, a chemi cal bond forms between the molecule and a surface site. A site may consist of a single atom or an array of atoms.
Where an array of atoms is involved the atoms may be of a single element,as they are in a pure-metal cluster. Al ternatively the array could consist of more than one type of atom, as in the case of a bimetallic cluster, for exam ple. The chemisorption process forms a surface compound.
The surface compound then under goes chemical transformations on the clusters to yield molecules of a differ ent chemical species, which are sub sequently desorbed (the process of adsorption in reverse). The product molecules then diffuse out through the network of pores into the gas stream flowing through the empty space be tween the particles. The desorption of a product molecule from the metal cluster releases a site for further par ticipation in the reaction. The active catalyst sites are used repeatedly in the reaction. The composition of the gas
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
PLATINUM-IRIDIUM CLUSTERS appear as black dots in an electron micrograph of a catalyst in which the clusters are dispersed throughout granules of a highly porous aluminum oxide. The clus ters are employed in the production from petrochemicals of aro matic hydrocarbons (ring-shaped molecules) that inhibit knock in internal-combustion engines. Each cluster is a bimetallic catalyst, an agent composed of two metals that facilitates chemical reactions.The clusters measure about 10 angstrom units (an angstrom unit is a ten-billionth of a meter). The light egg-shaped region in the cen ter of the image is a hole in the mount on which the sample rested. 91
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
PERMEABLE GRANULE (left) contains a network of pores represented by intersecting lines. Metal c1nsters reside on the walls of the pores (right). Molecnles diffnse throngh the pores, where they adhere to the surface of the clusters. The adsorbed molecules then under go chemical transformations on the clusters to yield molecules of different chemical spe cies. Molecules of the chemical product diffuse out through the pores. Since the clusters are not consumed in the process, they can be ·utilized for many chemical transformations.
CYCLOHEXANE
HYDROGENOLYSIS
C,H. + H,42CH4
ETHANE
METHANE
DEHYDROGENATION
#
CH5
HC6
CH
---->
I
II + 3H,
HC
CH
''c
H/
BENZENE
CH,
I
7
C
8
HC
CH
---->
I
II + 3H,
HC
CH
9C/
I
CH,
DIMETHYLCYCLOHEXANE
PARAXYLENE
HYDROCARBON REACTIONS are important both in the characterization of metallic and bimetallic catalysts and in the production of petroleum products. One such chemical transformation is the hydrogenolysis of hydrocarbons (top). In this class of reactions car bon-carbon bonds in hydrocarbons are ruptured and hydrogen is incorporated to form new hydrocarbons. An example is the reaction between ethane and hydrogen that produces methane. Another important class of reactions is the dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons (bot tom), which consists in rupturing carbon-hydrogen bonds and removing hydrogen. The de hydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene and hydrogen is an example of this kind of reac tion. The reaction rates for both the hydrogenolysis of ethane and the dehydrogenation of cYclohexane depend on the composition of the catalyst employed. The two reactions there fore serve as useful chemical probes. Dehydrogenation is also employed in the production of aromatic hydrocarbons (such as paraxylene) that have excellent antiknock proJlerties. 92 stream changes in its passage through the catalyst bed as the gas is'depleted of molecules of reactant and enriched in molecules of product. The perform ance of a catalyst in facilitating this chemical change has been customarily referred to as its activity.In developing an understanding of the general factors that influence cata lytic activities of metals, one can gain insight by studying a given reaction over a series of metals. A good exam ple is found in comparing the catalytic activities of metals for the hydrogenol ysis of hydrocarbons. That. reaction consists in rupturing the carbon-car bon bonds of hydrocarbons and add ing hydrogen to form, new hydro carbons, The simplest example is the reaction between one molecule of ethane (C2HS) and one molecule of hydrogen (H2) to form two molecules of methane (CH4). Sir Hugh Taylor and his colleagues at Princeton Uni versity originally investigated this re action on nickel, cobalt and iron cata lysts. At the Exxon laboratories we extended the work to a number of oth er metals and observed dramatic varia tions in the levels of their activity.
O
ur investigation of the hydrogen olysis activities of metal catalysts affords a good background for selec tivity studies of bimetallic catalysts.
The periodic table of elements pro vided a framework for our studies.
The elements in the periodic table are arranged in vertical columns called groups and in horizontal rows called periods. Elements in a given group tend to show similar chemical behav ior whereas those in a given period ex hibit a systematic variation of proper ties across the period. It is instructive to consider how hydrogenolysis activi ty varies from one metal to another within such a period.
We measured the activities of met als in three periods that include the first, second and third transition series,focusing our attention on the metals in group VIlA through group VIII to group lB. Since group VIII has three subgroups, designated VIII!> VIII2 and VIII3, each of the transition series con tains three metals within this group.
We obtained the most complete set of data on hydrogenolytic activities for metals of the third transition series. In this series osmium, a member of sub group VIII!> has the highest activity, The activity of platinum, a member of subgroup VIII3, is eight orders of mag nitude lower than the activity of osmi um, and the activity of iridium, a mem ber of subgroup VIII 2, falls between the extremes. Precise data on the activ ity of gold, the group IB metal immedi ately following platinum in this series,
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
are not available. It is known, however,that gold is much less active than plati num for hydrocarbon hydrogenolysis reactions in general.
In the second transition series we found a similar variation in activity ranging from ruthenium through pal ladium (group VIII members) to silver (a group lB member). The pattern of variation in the first transition series,however, differs from the pattern of the second and third series. We ob served that the activity of nickel, a member of subgroup VIII3, is higher than that of iron, a member of sub group VIII l' The activity of copper (the group IB metal following nickel),however, is much lower than that of nickel. This result is in agreement with the pattern of the other two series.A qualitative understanding of the pattern of variation follows from a principle that relates catalytic activity to both the ease with which a mole cule of reactant binds to a catalyst (chemisorption) and the strength of the chemisorption bond. The catalytic ac tivity reaches a maxim um when a reac tant molecule is rapidly adsorbed but its bond with the catalyst is only mod erately strong. If the chem isorption bond is too strong, the adsorbed mole cule will not undergo a reaction. Even if a reaction occurs, the prod uct will not readily desorb from the surface.Metals exhibiting these qualities in clude most of the members of groups VIA and VIlA (such as manganese,chromium and tungsten), which im mediately precede the group VIII met als in the periodic table.A bond that is too weak can also frustrate catalysis. Metals often exhib iting this quality include all the mem bers of group IB (copper, silver and gold). Chemisorption may also take place too slowly. Since the metals in group VIII rapidly adsorb molecules and allow reaction to occur, they are particularly important in catalysis.After completing our investigation I\. of ethane hydrogenolysis on met als, we began examining the selectivity of bimetallic catalysts. We studied the hydrogenolytic activities of bimetallic catalysts consisting of a highly active· group VIII metal in combination with an inactive group IB metal. To deter mine whether the effect of a group IB metal on the catalytic activity of a group VIII metal depends on the type of reaction, we included a second reac tion in the investigation, the dehydro genation of hydrocarbons. In contrast to hydrogenolysis, this reaction con sists in rupturing the carbon-hydrogen bonds of hydrocarbons and removing hydrogen, a process that leads to the formation of other hydrocarbons. Spe- > f- ;;i=
L
u Li:
U
W
0..
(f)
W
>
N
-' w a: VilA 10' 10' 10' 10'
FIRST TRNSITION SE
I
RIES
--1--- -- --5-
I
cOsAl:T(Coj- NICKEL (Ni) .
---
IROK (Fe) ---:--:-

\
_
.. .
_--
"_.-
;
I··········
_
....
-
COPPER (Cu)
SECOND TRANSIT':L
E
___
+
__ .
....
_ ...... _+
RUTHENIUM (Ru)
RHODIUM (Rh)
I
I
THIRD TRANSITION SERIES
OSMIUM (Os)
SILVER (Ag)
I
10' --- --+--/g:-'!h
...

10'
(Pt)
GOLD (Au)
VIA
VilA
VIII,
VIII,
VIII,
IB
GROUP NUMBER (IN PERIODIC TABLE OF ELEMENTS)
VIII
IB
.-
FIRST TRANSITION SERIES
CATALYTIC SPECIFICITY is strikingly
illustrated by the wide range in the ability
of metal catalysts to enhance the hydrogen
olysis of ethane to methane. Each graph cor
responds to one of the three transition series
of the periodic table of elements (left). The
horizontal axes of the graphs indicate the rel
ative positions of the elements in the transi
tion series. The vertical axes denote the spe
cific activity of each element with respect to
the others. The data show that the activities
of the group IB metals (copper and silver)
are many orders of magnitude lower than
those of such group VIII metals as nickel,
ruthenium, rhodium, iridium and osmium.
Mn
Fe
Co
Ni
SECOND TRANT
DN ST
ES
Tc 1 Ru
Rh
Pd
Re
Os
Ir
Pt
THIRD iRANSIT
N SERr
Cu
Ag
Au
93
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
cifically we considered the dehydro
genation
of
cyclohexane
(CsHd,
which yields one molecule of benzene
(C6H6) and three molecules of hydro
gen per cyclohexane molecule.
The first bimetallic system we inves
tigated was nickel-copper. Nickel and
copper mix with each other to form
alloys. We investigated the catalytic
activities at 316 degrees Celsius of a
series of nickel-copper alloys of vary
ing composition. These alloys, unlike
clusters, were not high-surface-area
materials. Rather they were in the
form of metal powders in which ap
proximately one atom in a thousand
was a surface atom.
Before considering the activities of
nickel-copper alloys for hydrogenoly
sis and dehydrogenation reactions, it is
important to realize that the surface
composition of a nickel-copper alloy
differs in general from the bulk com
position. Copper tends to concentrate
markedly in the surface of nickel-cop
per alloys. Even a nickel-copper al
loy containing only a small amount
of copper still has a surface dominated
by an abundance of copper atoms.
The effect of copper on the activi
ty of nickel for ethane hydrogenolysis
differs greatly from its effect on the
activity for cyclohexane dehydrogen
ation. The hydrogenolytic activity of
catalysts in which copper atoms ac
count for only 5 percent of the total
number of atoms is a thousandfold less
than the activity of pure nickel. As we
increased the copper content, the hy
drogenolytic activity decreased con
tinuously. In contrast, the activity of
nickel for dehydrogenation of cyclo- -
hexane is affected very little over a
wide range of composition, and it ac-
10' r-------,------,-----
s---------_,

i(
W
f
W
::;,;
i=
i5
10' I------i--
-- () • •
I
w a:<{
:::J
a (/)
CYCLOHEXANE DEHYDROGENATION
•
I
f
Z
o :::i
--' 10' ---------i-------------4-----------4----- '-
CiS
Z
W
f a:w
[L
o z o () w (/) a:w
[L
(/) w --'
:::J
()
W
--' o f > f- :> i=
M
103 10 o i
-----
I
-1
ETHANE HYDROGENOLYSIS
I
20
40
60
80
100
PERCENTAGE OF COPPER ATOMS IN NICKEL-COPPER CATALYST
BIMETALLIC CATALYSTS composed of nickel (a group VIII metal) and copper (a group
IB metal) in varying ratios have different effects on the rates of dehydrogenation and hy
drogenolysis. (Compared with nickel, copper is an ineffective catalyst for either reaction.)
The horizontal axis indicates the percentage of copper atoms in the nickel-copper cata
lysts. The vertical axis indicates the activity of the catalysts. The dehydrogenation of cyclo
hexane (colored curve) is affected only slightly by the addition of copper to nickel nntil 80
percent of the catalyst consists of copper. The hydrogenolysis of ethane (black curve), in
contrast, decreases sharply as the amount of copper in the cluster increases. A group IB met
al such as copper will generally suppress the hydrogenolytic activity of a group VIII metal;
its influence on dehydrogenation activity is much smaller. Consequently the selectivity for
dehydrogenation can be enhanced at the expense of competing hydrogenolytic reactions.
94
tually increased as we added the first
. increments of copper to nickel. Only
when the composition of the catalyst
approached pure copper did we' ob
serve a marked decline in dehydrogen
ation activity.
We found another example of a se
lectivity effect with ruthenium-copper
catalysts. On pure ruthenium, cyclo
hexane dehydrogenates to form ben
zene, but it also undergoes extensive
hydrogenolysis to yield small alkane
molecules such as methane. The incor
poration of copper with ruthenium
inhibits the hydrogenolysis reaction
while allowing the dehydrogenation
reaction. The selectivity of the con
version of cyclohexane into benzene
therefore improves markedly. The ru
thenium-copper catalyst is particular
ly interesting because the copper at
oms do not intermix in the bulk with
the ruthenium atoms. Instead the cop
per atoms sit on top of the ruthenium
surface layer, and ruthenium-copper
bonds are present at the interface.
The presence of copper can there
fore influence-the selectivity of a group
VIII metal whether or not the copper
mixes with the metal. My colleagues
and I also observed selective inhibition
of the hydrogenolysis activity of group
VIII metals when we substituted gold
or silver for copper. In general we have
found that a group IB metal suppresses
the hydrogenolysis activity of a group
VIII metal and improves its selectivity
for catalyzing such reactions as the de
hydrogenation and isomerization of
hydrocarbons. Findings reported by a
group of workers in the Netherlands
led by W. M. H. Sachtler and V. Ponec
corroborate our work.
M
y colleagues and I also obtained
significant res
ults in the aspect of
our research concerned with the prep
aration and characterization of bi
metallic clusters. In approaching this
problem we explored the possibility of
preparing very small alloy crystallites.
Since pairs of metallic elements that
do not intermix can exhibit significant
interactions for catalysis, however, it
did not seem appropriate to use the
term alloy catalysts when referring to
bimetallic catalysts in general. A term
such as bimetallic aggregates seemed
preferable to alloys. After working for
some time on the techniq
ue of dispers
ing bimetallic aggregates on carriers, I
introduced the term bimetallic cluster.
Clusters typically range in size from
10 to 50 angstroms. Sometimes they
are so small that virtually every atom
in a cluster is a surface atom.
We first prepared ruthenium-cop
per clusters. We wetted silica with
an aqueous solution of ruthenium and
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
copper salts. By drying the resulting
material and treating it with hydro
gen at elevated temperatures (400 to
600 degrees C.) we produced rutheni
um-copper clusters on the silica.
When we began our work in the ear
ly 1960's, we wanted evidence that
we were producing actual bimetallic
clusters instead of monometallic clus
ters of pure ruthenium and copper. At
that time the ability of physical meth
ods to obtain structural information
on such systems limited direct exper
imental verification of the presence
of bimetallic clusters. To obtain evi
dence for interaction between the two
metallic components we exploited our
earlier work on bimetallic catalysts
prepared without a carrier. The hydro
genolysis of ethane to methane proved
an ideal chemical probe of clusters be
cause the addition of a group IB metal
to a group VIII metal suppresses the
hydrogenolytic activity of the group
VIII metal. The absence of such sup
pression would have suggested that
the two metallic elements had not
formed bimetallic clusters. We found
significant
evidence
for
interaction
not only between ruthenium and cop
per but also between other group VIII
and group IB metals
.
. In recent years advances in X-ray
absorption spectroscopy have provid
ed workers with a valuable physical
probe for obtaining information on the
structures of bimetallic clusters; the
knowledge gained supplements what
has been learned by means of chemical
probes. When one exposes a sample of
material to a beam of X rays, the ex
tent of absorption of the X rays de
pends on the thickness of the sample
and the X-ray energy. Absorption oc
curs when an X ray excites an electron
of an absorbing atom from a low ener
gy state to a high energy state. If the X
ray energy is high enough, it will eject
the electron (known as a photoelec
tron) from the atom. At such an X
ray energy the absorption increases
sharply, producing an absorption edge.
When the X-ray energy exceeds the en
ergy req
uired to detach electrons in a
given state from an atom, the photo
electrons retain the excess energy as
kinetic energy.
As one increases the X-ray energy
beyond the threshold required to pro
duce photoelectrons, the kinetic ener
gy of the photoelectrons increases and
absorption of the X rays decreases.
The decline in absorption persists until
the energy of the X rays becomes high
enough to excite electrons out of the
next-lower energy state characteristic
of atoms in the sample material. At
such an X-ray energy one observes an
other absorption edge. As the X-ray
Cii

I
Z
:l
J
<t
II:
I
iD
II:
::5-
I
Z
W
U
u:::

LL
W
o
u
z
o
I
II:
H
III

<t
Cii

I
Z
:l
J
ii
I
iD
II:
::5-
I
Z
W
U
u:::

LL
W
o
u
z
o
I
II:
H
III

<t
IRIDIUM (Ir)
11
RUTHENIUM·COPPER CLUSTERS
22.5
23
23.5
ENERGY (THOUSANDS OF ELECTRON VOLTS)
PLATINUM-IRIDIUM CLUSTERS
PLATINUM (Pt)
12
13
ENERGY (THOUSANDS OF ELECTRON VOLTS)
14
X-RAY-ABSORPTION SPECTROSCOPY is useful in the characterization of clusters. A
beam of X rays is directed at the catalyst being probed. When the energy of the X-ray beam
is great enough to separate an electron from an atom, an abrupt increase in X-ray absorp
tion occurs. Such an energy level (called an absorption edge) characterizes an element. Ru
thenium-copper clusters (top illustratioll) exhibit an absorption edge at an energy slightly
greater than 22,000 electron volts. Generally elements have a series of absorption edges.
The graph for platinum-iridium clusters (bottom illustratioll) displays six absorption edges,
which lie between 11,000 and 14,000 electron volts. For X-ray energies greater than those
corresponding to the absorption edges, the absorption coefficient fluctuates. Analysis of
the fluctuations characteristic of ruthenium-copper clusters indicates that actual bimetal
lic clusters are formed, as opposed to monometallic clusters of the individual elements. In
the case of platinum-iridium the fluctuations following a so-called L absorption edge (such
as Lm) indicate that the clusters are not uniform mixtures of platinum and iridium atoms.
95
1985 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
106 ,------,-----,-----,-----'1-----,


-_+___ ..
2 ........ +-.___t_
a:c 102 1---


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do single-atom alloys, particularly Pd atoms embedded in Cu surfaces, enhance catalytic performance in selective hydrogenation reactions, and what are the essential criteria for designing successful SAA catalysts in terms of reaction conditions, metal properties, and specific advantages over traditional catalysts, including their ability to break scaling rules and improve selectivity across various catalyst systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 