<quotes>

[1] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[2] "Overall, extensive research into VOx-based catalysts has been undertaken, with the clear limitation being overoxidation to COx products, but recent developments with one-step preparations and grafting techniques have improved catalyst performance to be comparable with the most active DDH Pt- and CrOx catalysts. Deep oxidation remains a challenge for VOx and other supported metal oxides. However, it is clear than B-based catalysts, although recently developed and less understood in both structure and mechanism, have clear potential for commercialisation due to the high selectivity at high propane conversion. Additionally, ethene is formed as a secondary product. Many B-based catalysts have similar, if not higher, STYs compared to DDH catalysts."
[3] "Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260 The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene. While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air. This severely limits the utility of this catalyst."
[4] "The majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial. Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264 After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream. In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period."
[5] "The role of the support was closely examined for propane ODH-CO2 by Xu et al.114 It was found that Ga2O3 supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and ZrO2 exhibited high activity, while SiO2 and MgO resulted in poorer performing catalysts."
[6] "In addition to the acidbase properties of the support, the authors considered the interaction between the Ga and the support to be of importance. In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced. This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield."
[7] "Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial,114,273 Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.274,275 At 600 C, although the initial propane conversion was similar for DDH and ODH-CO2, after 8 h on-stream the stability of the catalyst was markedly improved in the presence of CO2, where Ga8Al2O15 retained 66% of its initial activity, compared to just 44% in the absence of CO2. The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst."
[8] "The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts. While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few."
[9] "In many cases, the catalyst can be regenerated periodically, by burning off the coke using O2. As discussed above, catalyst regeneration is commonplace in commercial DDH processes and therefore isn't necessarily a barrier to commercialisation. However, the best STYs reported are, with few exceptions, in the range of 510 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, whereas for the DDH reaction, values over 100 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 are possible. As a result, further advances in the activation of propane over ODH-CO2 catalysts are required."
[10] "Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental. The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.A variety of catalysts have been developed for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques to address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods. Ni-based catalysts, particularly NiO-CeO2, have shown promise in oxidative PDH (ODH-O2) processes. Mo-based catalysts are also being investigated, but they currently have low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) has high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may be a strong candidate for an active and selective catalyst. Vanadia- and boron-based catalysts have been extensively researched for ODH-O2, with recent developments improving catalyst performance to be comparable with the most active DDH Pt- and CrOx catalysts. B-based catalysts have clear potential for commercialization due to their high selectivity at high propane conversion and similar or higher space-time yields (STYs) compared to DDH catalysts. In ODH-CO2 processes, Cr2O3/AC catalysts have shown enhanced activity in the presence of CO2, but they rapidly deactivate on-stream and cannot be regenerated using air. The addition of a promoter, such as Ni, has been shown to increase propane and CO2 conversion and on-stream stability. Ga2O3 supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and ZrO2 exhibits high activity, while SiO2 and MgO result in poorer performing catalysts. The interaction between Ga and the support is important, with Ga2O3/TiO2 catalysts showing high propane conversion but lower propene selectivity. Spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides have been shown to function as stable catalysts in ODH-CO2 processes. The poor on-stream stability of chromium-based catalysts is a significant barrier to commercial application, and further advances in the activation of propane over ODH-CO2 catalysts are required. Supported nanoparticle (NP) catalysts are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalysts that should be further investigated.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.为了应对工业对丙烯日益增长的需求以及传统生产方法的局限性，已经开发了各种催化剂用于丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术。Ni基催化剂，特别是NiO-CeO2，在氧化PDH（ODH-O2）过程中显示出潜力。正在研究Mo基催化剂，但它们目前在中等丙烷转化率下具有较低的丙烯选择性。石墨碳氮化物（g-C3N4）在中等丙烷转化率下对烯烃具有高选择性，可能是活性和选择性催化剂的有力候选者。对于ODH-O2，已经广泛研究了钒基和硼基催化剂，最近的发展提高了催化剂性能，使其与最活跃的DDH Pt和CrOx催化剂相当。B基催化剂由于在高丙烷转化率下具有高选择性，具有明确的商业化潜力，与DDH催化剂相比，具有相似或更高的时空产率（STY）。在ODH-CO2过程中，Cr2O3/AC催化剂在CO2存在下显示出增强的活性，但它们在流化过程中迅速失活，无法使用空气再生。添加促进剂，如Ni，已被证明可以增加丙烷和CO2的转化率以及流化稳定性。Ga2O3在TiO2、Al2O3和ZrO2上的支撑表现出高活性，而SiO2和MgO导致性能较差的催化剂。Ga与支撑之间的相互作用很重要，Ga2O3/TiO2催化剂显示出高丙烷转化率，但丙烯选择性较低。自旋型Ga2O3Al2O3混合氧化物已被证明在ODH-CO2过程中可作为稳定催化剂。铬基催化剂在流化过程中的稳定性差是商业应用的重大障碍，需要进一步改进丙烷在ODH-CO2催化剂上的活化。支撑纳米颗粒（NP）催化剂是ODH-CO2催化剂中一个有希望但被忽视的类别，应该进一步研究。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
