<quotes>

[1] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[2] "In ODH-O2, B-based catalysts are the best performing, with STY values in excess of 70 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 reported. Some boron catalysts exceeded 200 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, well above the 5 kgC3H6 kgcat h1 threshold and underscores their potential for commercial application."
[3] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."
[4] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[5] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[6] "The ability of Cr to catalyse multiple sub-reactions is likely to be related to its stability (and activity) in multiple valence states. In DDH, Cr3+ sites are considered the active species, while in ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2, the redox cycle of Cr to Cr4+ and Cr3+ all facilitate the activation of the oxidant."
[7] "The role of the support was closely examined for propane ODH-CO2 by Xu et al.114 It was found that Ga2O3 supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and ZrO2 exhibited high activity, while SiO2 and MgO resulted in poorer performing catalysts."
[8] "The majority of investigations thus far have focussed on Ga- or Cr-based catalysts and improvement in these catalysts has been incremental. Supported nanoparticles on the other hand, have received little attention despite showing some promising results."
[9] "In terms of side-reactions, cracking is the only common source of by-products in each sub-reaction. Coking remains a major challenge in DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-N2O, while overoxidation is generally observed in the ODH-O2 and ODH-N2O processes."
[10] "In summary, while the ODH-N2O reaction is hindered significantly by its tendency to deactivate rapidly without the presence of O2, Fe-ZSM-5 as a catalyst is very resistant to deactivation and its use for the ODH-N2O reaction is contingent on several factors."
[11] "In ODH-O2, B-based catalysts are the best performing, with STY values in excess of 70 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 reported. Some boron catalysts exceeded 200 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, well above the 5 kgC3H6 kgcat h1 threshold and underscores their potential for commercial application."
[12] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[13] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[14] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."
[15] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[16] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[17] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[18] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."
[19] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[20] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[21] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[22] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."
[23] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[24] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[25] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[26] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."
[27] "In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst."
[28] "In ODH-CO2, CrOx based catalysts yield the highest STY, but only incremental advances have been made in recent years and it will take a step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions, as a mean to produce propene."
[29] "In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 are the most active catalysts known, and in one example a STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was reported. ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction and it is thought that the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect."
[30] "The advent of boron-based catalysts for this reaction has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. As a relatively stable, non-hazardous and abundant element, boron catalysts may well play a major role in future propene production processes. Furthermore, they appear to be stable on-stream in laboratory tests, although industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by offering alternative routes to produce propylene from propane. These techniques, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), have the potential to avoid the formation of coke, a major issue in traditional non-oxidative PDH processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. For instance, boron-based catalysts have shown significant promise in ODH-O2, with high space-time yields (STY) that exceed 70 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, and some boron catalysts have even exceeded 200 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1. These catalysts are relatively stable, non-hazardous, and abundant, making them a strong candidate for commercial application in future propene production processes. However, industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported for these catalysts.
2. In ODH-CO2, while CrOx-based catalysts yield the highest STY, only incremental advances have been made in recent years. It will take a significant step-change in catalyst development before ODH-CO2 can be meaningfully compared to DDH and ODH-O2 reactions as a means to produce propene. This highlights the need for further research and development in ODH-CO2 catalysts to improve their performance and stability.
3. In ODH-N2O, Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts are the most active known, with a reported STY of 178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1. However, ODH-N2O is the least studied sub-reaction, and the relatively high cost and low availability of N2O may be the most limiting aspect. The use of Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts in ODH-N2O is hindered by their tendency to deactivate rapidly without the presence of O2, although they are very resistant to deactivation compared to other catalysts. The potential for Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts to be used in ODH-N2O is contingent on several factors, including the cost and availability of N2O.
4. The ability of Cr to catalyze multiple sub-reactions is likely related to its stability and activity in multiple valence states. In DDH, Cr3+ sites are considered the active species, while in ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2, the redox cycle of Cr to Cr4+ and Cr3+ facilitates the activation of the oxidant. This suggests that Cr-based catalysts may have versatile applications in different PDH processes.
5. The role of the support in PDH catalysts is crucial for enhancing and maintaining high dispersion of the active phase. For instance, Ga2O3 supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and ZrO2 has exhibited high activity in ODH-CO2, while SiO2 and MgO resulted in poorer performing catalysts. This highlights the importance of selecting appropriate supports for PDH catalysts to optimize their performance.
6. Supported nanoparticles have received little attention in PDH catalyst development despite showing some promising results. This suggests that there is potential for further research and development in supported nanoparticle catalysts for PDH processes.
7. Coking remains a major challenge in DDH, ODH-CO2, and ODH-N2O, while overoxidation is generally observed in ODH-O2 and ODH-N2O processes. This highlights the need for catalyst design strategies that can minimize coking and overoxidation to improve the stability and selectivity of PDH catalysts.
8. The advent of boron-based catalysts for ODH-O2 has led to a significant increase in the prospects for commercial application. These catalysts are relatively stable, non-hazardous, and abundant, making them a strong candidate for future propene production processes. However, industrially relevant stability tests have not yet been reported for these catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过提供从丙烷生产丙烯的替代途径，解决了工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的挑战。特别是氧化脱氢(ODH)技术，有可能避免传统非氧化PDH过程中的焦炭形成这一主要问题。正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服氧化和非氧化PDH过程中的失活问题，提高稳定性，改善可回收性。例如，硼基催化剂在ODH-O2中显示出巨大潜力，空间时间产率(STY)超过70 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1，一些硼催化剂甚至超过200 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1。这些催化剂相对稳定，无害，且丰富，使其成为未来丙烯生产过程中的有力候选者。然而，这些催化剂的工业相关稳定性测试尚未报告。
2. 在ODH-CO2中，尽管CrOx基催化剂的STY最高，但近年来仅取得了渐进式的进展。在将ODH-CO2作为生产丙烯的手段与DDH和ODH-O2反应进行有意义的比较之前，催化剂开发需要发生重大变革。这凸显了在ODH-CO2催化剂中进一步研究和开发以提高其性能和稳定性的必要性。
3. 在ODH-N2O中，Fe-ZSM-5催化剂是已知的最活跃的催化剂，报告的STY为178 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1。然而，ODH-N2O是最少研究的副反应，N2O的相对高成本和低可用性可能是最限制性的方面。Fe-ZSM-5催化剂在ODH-N2O中的使用受到其在没有O2存在的情况下迅速失活的阻碍，尽管它们与其他催化剂相比非常抗失活。Fe-ZSM-5催化剂在ODH-N2O中的潜在应用取决于几个因素，包括N2O的成本和可用性。
4. Cr催化多个副反应的能力可能与其在多种价态下的稳定性和活性有关。在DDH中，Cr3+位点被认为是活性物种，而在ODH-CO2和ODH-O2中，Cr到Cr4+和Cr3+的氧化还原循环促进了氧化剂的活化。这表明Cr基催化剂可能在不同的PDH过程中具有广泛的应用。
5. PDH催化剂中载体的作用对于增强和维持活性相的高分散性至关重要。例如，在ODH-CO2中，TiO2、Al2O3和ZrO2支撑的Ga2O3表现出高活性，而SiO2和MgO导致性能较差的催化剂。这凸显了为PDH催化剂选择合适的载体以优化其性能的重要性。
6. 尽管显示出一些有希望的结果，但支撑纳米粒子在PDH催化剂开发中受到的关注很少。这表明在PDH过程中，支撑纳米粒子催化剂的进一步研究和开发具有潜力。
7. 焦化仍然是DDH、ODH-CO2和ODH-N2O的主要挑战，而过度氧化通常在ODH-O2和ODH-N2O过程中观察到。这凸显了需要催化剂设计策略，以最小化焦化和过度氧化，以提高PDH催化剂的稳定性和选择性。
8. 硼基催化剂在ODH-O2中的出现极大地增加了商业应用的前景。这些催化剂相对稳定，无害，且丰富，使其成为未来丙烯生产过程中的有力候选者。然而，这些催化剂的工业相关稳定性测试尚未报告。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
