<quotes>

[1] "The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species."
[2] "Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts."
[3] "Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits."
[4] "As previously discussed for other DDH catalysts, innovative techniques have also been applied in the preparation of V/SiO2 catalysts. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibited an initial propane conversion and propene selectivity of 18.1% and 91% respectively. The STY was calculated to be 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 8), which is one of the highest VOx containing catalysts reported to date.146 Compared to analogous catalysts synthesized via wet impregnation, the direct co-assembly process for the V-DMSNs catalysts contributed to enhancing the interaction between the V5+ species and the silica support. Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability."
[5] "Hu et al. investigated the influence of gelation and calcination temperatures on the properties and catalytic performance.147 Interestingly, enhancement to catalytic performance in terms of propane conversion, propene selectivity and yield of propene were observed for VOx/SiO2 catalysts (gelation temperature: 60 C, calcination temperature: 580 C)."
[6] "Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising catalyst supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability as mentioned before. Chen et al. synthesized numerous VOx/Si-beta zeolites with various V loadings (in the 0.510 wt% range) with the initial propane conversion shown to linearly increase with the amount of acid sites, Fig. 6.148 This demonstrated the dependency of catalytic activity on total Lewis and Brnsted acid sites generated by VOx on silica, with Brnsted acid sites disappearing after high temperature treatment due to decomposition of hydrated VOx."
[7] "Alternatively, ZrO2 can be used as a support for VOx. It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).149 The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species."
[8] "Jeon et al. investigated various loadings of V on VOx/ZrO2 catalysts.150 For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C. This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported."
[9] "In view of catalyst design, the nature of the support is an essential consideration, due to the importance of metalsupport interactions and the influence of acid sites on the formation of different surface VOx species."
[10] "Although the most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method."
[11] "The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. These techniques address the challenges by providing alternative routes to produce propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. For instance, the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) has been used to synthesize mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase. It was found that the crystallization temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability. Mg modification to VOx/Al2O3 catalysts revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance. Innovative techniques have also been applied in the preparation of V/SiO2 catalysts, such as the direct co-assembly process for vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), which contributed to enhancing the interaction between the V5+ species and the silica support. Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability. The influence of gelation and calcination temperatures on the properties and catalytic performance of VOx/SiO2 catalysts was also investigated. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising catalyst supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The nature of the support is an essential consideration in catalyst design, due to the importance of metalsupport interactions and the influence of acid sites on the formation of different surface VOx species. The relative proportion and stability of the most active V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method. The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.随着工业对丙烯需求的增加和传统生产方法的局限性，已经开发了丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术。这些技术通过提供生产丙烯的替代途径来解决这些挑战。正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服失活问题，提高稳定性和改善在氧化和非氧化PDH过程中的可回收性。例如，使用阴阳离子双重水解方法（CADH）合成了具有高表面积和纯γ-Al2O3相的介孔Al2O3。发现支撑物的结晶温度直接影响VOx/Al2O3催化剂的催化性能，这是由于结晶温度升高至100°C时Lewis酸位点数量增加的结果。这反过来又影响了不同表面V物种的分布。VOx/Al2O3催化剂的P改性降低了VOx的聚合度，这对催化剂稳定性有积极影响。VOx/Al2O3催化剂的Mg改性揭示了抗焦化能力和改进的催化性能。在V/SiO2催化剂的制备中也应用了创新技术，例如直接共组装过程用于含钒的树枝状介孔二氧化硅纳米颗粒（V-DMSNs），这有助于增强V5+物种与二氧化硅支撑物之间的相互作用。高度分散和稳定的VOx物种以及V2O5晶体的缺失有利于高催化活性和稳定性。还研究了VOx/SiO2催化剂的凝胶化和煅烧温度对性能和催化性能的影响。脱铝β沸石（Si-beta）是由于其高表面积和热稳定性而有前景的催化剂支撑物。VOx/ZrO2的活性大约是VOx/Al2O3和纯ZrO2的五倍，表现出9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1的STY。VOx/ZrO2的增强性能源于VO、VOV和VOZr键的容易还原，从而产生更高比例的活性V3+物种。在催化剂设计中，支撑物的性质是一个重要的考虑因素，因为金属支撑物相互作用和酸位点对不同表面VOx物种的形成有影响。最活跃的V物种的相对比例和稳定性可以通过改变制备方法来调整。V基催化剂的性能范围相当大，最活跃的催化剂表现出的STY大约是最活跃的Pt催化剂的34倍。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
