<quotes>
Catalysis Today, 1(1987) 147-156 147 Elsevier Science Publishers B.V., Amsterdam - Printed in The Netherlands CATALYTIC OXIDATION OF METHANE ON MOOS-SiO2 : MECHANISM OF AND N20 STUDIED BY SURFACE POTENTIAL MEASUREMENTS
OXIDATION WITH 02
Y. BARBAUX, A. ELAMRANI and J.P. BONNELLE
Laboratoire de Catalyse Heterogene et Homogene, U.A. C.N.R.S. no 402, Universite des Sciences et Techniques de Lille Flandres-Artois,59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq Cedex (France)

INTRODUCTION
Natural gas is the major source of methane, containing 40 to 95 volume percent of CH4. The use of methane for other purposes than heat production is limited because of the difficulty to store and transport this compound.
There- fore it would be extremely valuable to convert methane into products easier to handle and more valuable for the chemical industry, like methanol or formalde- hyde.

EXPERIMENTAL
Catalysts The samples of MoO3 supported on SiO2. were prepared by impregnation of silica (Aerosil DEGUSSA 130 m2.g-') by an ammonium heptamolybdate solution,followed by evaporation under continuous stirring, and drying at llOC for 16 hours.The catalyst was then calcined at 5OO*C under dry air for 16 hours. The concentration of lybdenum is expressed in weight percent of atomic molybdenum.

Catalytic activity measurements The catalytic activity measurements were performed in a fixed bed reactor,under continuous flow at atmospheric pressure.The mass of the catalyst was lg and the total flow rate of the gas was 3 1-h-l.The partial pressures (in atm.) of the gases were : CH, : 0.11, 02 or N20 : 0.33, H20 : 0.22, He : 0.34,for experiments conducted with water: and CH 4 : 0.13, 02 or N20 : 0.42, He : 0.45,for experiments without water.

SURFACE POTENTIAL ASURENTS The surface potential of the samples was measured by the vibrating capacitor method.The reference electrode was made of graphite.The potential measuring cell was connected to a gas flow system which allowed controlled streams of oxygen or nitrous oxide,methane,argon and their mixtures to pass through the apparatus.All the surface potential values presented in this work are relative to the graphite electrode potential : V = Vtgraphitel - Vtsamplef.Hence,an increase of the value of the potential difference indicates that the surface becomes more negative.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document describes a study on the catalytic oxidation of methane on MoO3-supported on silica catalysts using surface potential measurements. The aim is to investigate the difference in reactivity when oxygen or nitrous oxide is used as the oxidizing agent. The experimental setup includes fixed-bed reactors, with continuous flow at atmospheric pressure, and surface potential measurements performed using the vibrating capacitor method. The catalyst preparation involves impregnating silica with an ammonium heptamolybdate solution followed by evaporation, drying, and calcination at 500°C under dry air.

The document also discusses the catalytic activity measurements, including conversions and selectivities of methane oxidation with oxygen or nitrous oxide, as well as the effects of water presence on the reaction outcomes. Surface potential variations with respect to temperature and partial pressures of the gases are presented, providing insights into the nature of the oxygen species involved in the catalytic oxidation reactions.

The study aims to understand the differences in reactivity between oxygen and nitrous oxide as oxidizing agents in methane oxidation, focusing on the role of surface potential measurements in elucidating the mechanism of the reaction and the behavior of oxygen species on the catalyst surface.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文研究了在硅酸盐上支持的钼酸盐催化剂上甲烷的催化氧化，使用表面电位测量。目标是调查当氧气或硝酸氧化物作为氧化剂时的反应性差异。实验设置包括固定床反应器，在大气压力下连续流动，并使用振动电容器方法进行表面电位测量。催化剂制备过程包括将硫酸镁溶液浸渍到硅酸盐中，随后蒸发、干燥并在500°C下在干燥空气中煅烧。

文档还讨论了催化活性测量，包括氧气或硝酸氧化物氧化甲烷时的转化率和选择性，以及水存在对反应结果的影响。提供了温度和气体分压下表面电位的变化，为催化氧化反应机制和催化剂表面氧物种行为提供见解。

研究旨在理解氧气和硝酸氧化物作为氧化剂在甲烷氧化中的反应性差异，重点关注表面电位测量在阐明反应机理和催化剂表面氧物种行为方面的作用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
