Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a larger surface area and unique channel character, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, impacting the final properties of the support and metallic phases. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of parent H-Beta and incorporation of Sn species through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination impacts Sn incorporation. High L/B ratio, resulting from a higher concentration of Lewis acid sites over Brnsted acid sites, is beneficial for PDH. The active site for dehydrogenation is the Lewis acid, while Brnsted acid facilitates cracking. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, which enhance catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though synthesis challenges persist. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, enhancing Pt alloy formation. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites strengthens the interaction between PtCe clusters and support, while metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and metallic particle dispersion. Optimal cerium content (0.76 wt%) yields high propene selectivity (96.87%) and maximizes reaction activity and stability. Cerium-modified ZSM-5 supports for PtSn catalysts stabilize active sites, increase Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitate coke migration, improving catalyst longevity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, leveraging cerium's promoter effect on metal phase and support acidity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 achieving the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. Silanol nests in S-1 suppress ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, enhancing catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, utilizing supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are preferred due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. For future PDH catalysts, the structural characteristics and acidity of zeolite supports are critical for performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, exemplify the effectiveness of these structures in PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, creating hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, especially MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size, and controlled acidity, which stabilize metal particles and resist coking. Their high thermal stability and mechanical strength make them effective supports for dehydrogenation catalysts, improving stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts for its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. It outperforms γ-Al2O3 in coke accommodation, likely due to its large surface area and channel structure. Zinc addition improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity and, when incorporated into ZSM-5, creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, with a high L/B ratio favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination and subsequent Sn incorporation affects the zeolite's acidity and structure, creating Lewis acid sites essential for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized with a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. The synthesis method involves co-impregnation of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and REE nitrates, followed by heating under O2 and H2.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, alters its morphologies and textural properties, enhancing metallic particle dispersion and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This improves the interaction between Sn species and the support, stabilizing active sites and increasing reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content yields a propene selectivity of 96.87% and the highest reaction activity. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Future PDH catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, likely due to their intrinsic properties that optimize Pt site catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. Future PDH catalyst design should prioritize structural characteristics and acidity for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction efficiency. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals could enhance selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, favored for their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are crucial in PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored for PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, large surface area, and channel character enhance its performance compared to γ-Al2O3 supported catalysts. Metal promoters, like zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, and their addition method influences the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio is optimal for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via a two-step post-synthesis method: dealumination of parent H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Theoretical calculations suggest that the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, indicating potential for new catalysts in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, which enhance catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure supports the incorporation of PtREE, enabling the discovery of alloy catalysts with various compositions, opening new avenues for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "In PDH reactions, metal-zeolite catalysts are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and easy regeneration, though synthesis challenges persist. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI, facilitated by Si-OH group bonding, integrates with Pt to form an alloy. BEA topology, identified by XRD, ensures well-crystalline structures. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI topology, enhances morphologies and textural properties, improving dispersion of metallic particles and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, boosting reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. An optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields a high propene selectivity of 96.87% and maximizes reaction activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to further improve reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored as supports for ZnO due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits PDH. The dispersed ZnO on S-1 is stabilized by silanol nests, suppressing aggregation and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalysts. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on these properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness in PDH reactions is attributed to structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, favored for their thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to stabilize metal particles, enhance PDH catalyst stability and selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area and uniform pore size, limit acidity, beneficial for dehydrogenation. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and tolerates coke deposition. Tailored zeolites with improved thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts is attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, into ZSM-5 improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity and can create new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of parent H-Beta and incorporation of Sn species through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn-Beta maintains its crystalline structure and pore architecture, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites crucial for dehydrogenation. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis than Brnsted acid sites, is beneficial for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites more reactive depending on hydroxylation extents. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The mesoporous zeolite supports various alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. The synthesis method and structural characteristics of this zeolite are key to its effectiveness in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, due to their unique pore structure, enable high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, enhances catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and acidity. This modification optimizes the dispersion of metallic particles, improves hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and strengthens the interaction of Sn species with the support. At 0.76 wt% Ce content, the catalyst shows the highest reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity of 96.87%. This method stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, including high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, are crucial for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences DHP activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used to support ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in enhancing metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to improve catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are favored due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, as per [1] and [2], impacting future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction effectiveness. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, showcases unique physical properties. The high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity of these zeolites facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions for its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and channel character, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn in the zeolitic framework. A high L/B ratio, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, is achieved through a two-step post-synthesis procedure involving dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn atoms incorporation. Sn-Beta(13.0 M HNO3) maintains its crystalline structure and pore architecture, with tetrahedrally coordinated Sn species becoming less reducible. The incorporation of Sn species changes the acid property, creating Lewis acid sites for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation, with open sites being more reactive depending on hydroxylation extents. These findings offer potential for developing new PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. This supports the development of advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "In PDH reactions, metal-zeolite catalysts are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for co-catalysis, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI, facilitated by Si-OH bonding, integrates with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms BEA topology in Beta samples, while high Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in creating stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to high propene selectivity (96.87%) and superior performance. Ce substitution affects the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and the interaction between Sn species and the support. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity and improving catalyst performance. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, including high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to enhance reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly silicalite-1 (S-1), are dominant supports for metal oxides like ZnO due to their topology without strong acidity. S-1's silanol nests stabilize ZnO species, preventing aggregation and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, leveraging the structural benefits of MFI and BEA topologies.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, as noted in quote [2]. This highlights their effectiveness and guides future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. Future PDH catalyst design should prioritize structural characteristics and acidity for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH efficiency. Future developments may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future catalyst design could optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, making them effective for PDH reactions. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its unique physical properties, including a three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its large surface area and channel character enable better coke accommodation compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, into ZSM-5 can neutralize acidity and improve reaction selectivity, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior compared to traditional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are pivotal in PDH reactions. Their synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acids cause cracking. A high L/B ratio is optimal for PDH, enhancing dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta's structure remains intact post-Sn incorporation, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated in the framework, creating Lewis acid sites crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of various alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI, achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe clusters' interaction with the support, and metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, with its unique physical properties, serves as an effective catalyst carrier. Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 enhances morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This modification stabilizes active sites, increases Sn species in oxidative states, and promotes coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. An optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content yields high propene selectivity (96.87%), maximizing reaction activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites, characterized by high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, are dominant in PDH due to their structural advantages. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences propane conversion, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1), an MFI topology zeolite, serves as a support for ZnO, enhancing its dispersion and stability. The interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite support characteristics in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, enhancing catalytic stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading and distribution within the zeolite framework, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high surface area, uniform pore size, and controlled acidity, which stabilize metal particles and tolerate coke deposition. Their high thermal stability and mechanical strength suggest potential for more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future. Tailoring zeolite properties, like increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its unique three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its large surface area and channel character enable better coke accommodation compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Adding metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. However, the literature does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in PDH reactions. Their synthesis involves dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation, affecting the L/B ratio, crucial for dehydrogenation. The Lewis acid site, enhanced by Sn incorporation, is active for PDH, while Brnsted acid facilitates cracking. A high L/B ratio boosts PDH efficiency. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with high Lewis acidity and low B/L ratio, excels in PDH, offering potential for next-generation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, which boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure, featuring ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores, supports metals effectively in PDH reactions. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and other transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. Well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples supports high dispersion of Al sites, enhancing PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. This modification affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to further improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, suggesting their intrinsic nature may optimize Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may focus on MFI and BEA zeolites for dispersing and stabilizing active metal species, enhancing PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) or direct synthesis (metal sites introduced during crystallization). MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalyst performance. This insight is crucial for future developments in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, are effective in PDH reactions due to their high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The limited acidity and uniform pore size distribution of MFI and BEA zeolites are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions, providing high surface area and tolerance to coke deposition. Promoters like tin or structural modifications can mitigate coking, improving catalyst performance. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    