Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its unique three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts is attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, affecting the final properties of the support and metallic phases. The literature does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which facilitate dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio is beneficial for PDH, as it increases the dehydrogenation rate relative to cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through dealumination of Al-Beta and incorporation of Sn species, affecting the zeolite's acidity and creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest that direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible than indirect ones, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Its use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE into the mesoporous zeolite was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the synthesis method's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though synthesis is challenging. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, and increasing hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This modification stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields high propene selectivity (96.87%), maximizing reaction activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using MFI or BEA zeolites with abundant silanol nests to disperse and stabilize active metal species, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn species distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the critical roles of structural characteristics and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading and distribution within the zeolite framework and creating hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer. Zeolites with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas can prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The limited acidity and uniform pore size distribution of MFI and BEA zeolites are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions, offering high surface area and tolerance to coke deposition. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. It has a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, possibly due to its large surface area and channel character. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity. Zinc's addition method influences the support and metallic phases' properties, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior. BEA topological zeolites are not discussed in relation to PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high L/B ratio is favorable for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based catalysts, which are incorporated through co-impregnation and subsequent heating. This development opens new opportunities for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances interaction with PtCe clusters. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolite, a MFI topological zeolite, enhances PDH catalyst performance by modifying morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and interaction with Sn species. Optimal cerium content of 0.76 wt% yields 96.87% propene selectivity, maximizing reaction activity and stability. This substitution stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are preferred due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. These structural and acidity features of MFI and BEA zeolites are pivotal for PDH catalyst performance, guiding future design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH efficiency. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 exemplify zeolites with unique physical properties that enhance PDH reactions. The high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity of these zeolites facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. High surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity in MFI and BEA zeolites benefit dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel system and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with zinc's addition method influencing the final properties. Zinc's incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in PDH reactions. Synthesized via a two-step post-synthesis method involving dealumination and Sn incorporation, these zeolites maintain their crystalline structure and pore architecture. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high L/B ratio is advantageous for PDH. Sn incorporation changes the zeolite's acidity, creating Lewis acid sites that are crucial for dehydrogenation. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, exhibits superior PDH performance, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer insights into the development of advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, which enhances catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure supports various transition metal-based alloy catalysts, opening new opportunities for catalytic applications. The synthesis method and structural characteristics of this zeolite contribute significantly to its effectiveness in PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and, despite challenges, pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for their catalytic properties and regeneration. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI integrates with Pt to form alloys, while Al site dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. These advancements expand the scope of PDH catalysts, offering stable and regenerable options.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. Cerium substitution affects the zeolite's morphologies and physical structure, reducing weak acid sites and improving coke resistance. This modification influences the dispersion of metallic particles, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and the interaction between Sn species and the support, stabilizing active sites and promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity, facilitating coke migration from metal sites to the support, and makes the promoter's effect on metal phase and support acidity more effective. MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites. The pore geometry of these catalysts significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal species-zeolite support interaction for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, enhancing catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments could optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an ideal support for platinum catalysts. Its enhanced coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and unique channel structure, surpasses that of γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, and their addition method influences the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. However, the literature does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio, beneficial for PDH, is achieved through a two-step synthesis: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. Dealumination with HNO3 facilitates Al removal, and Sn atoms fill the vacancies, maintaining the crystalline structure. Sn incorporation reduces the reducibility of Sn species and creates Lewis acid sites, essential for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting direct pathways are more feasible for dehydrogenation. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while promoting high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure supports advanced catalysts, enabling the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their structural characteristics, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. ZSM-5, a MFI-type zeolite, is particularly effective when cerium is substituted into its framework, affecting morphologies and textural properties. This substitution reduces weak acid sites, enhances dispersion of metallic particles, and improves hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content in ZSM-5 supports for PtSn catalysts leads to high propene selectivity, increased reaction activity, and stability. Ce-modification stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. These findings suggest that Ce-modified ZSM-5 supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts could be a promising direction for future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH over mesoporous SBA-15, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The limited acidity and high surface area of these zeolites benefit dehydrogenation reactions, with a high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring properties like increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a support for platinum. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, improving reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, demonstrating the impact of promoter addition method on catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites cause cracking. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis acid sites, is advantageous for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination influences Sn incorporation. Sn atoms, tetrahedrally coordinated in the framework, create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer potential for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and easy regeneration, though synthesis is challenging. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species in MFI zeolites promotes atomic dispersion and alloy formation with Pt. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples, and the high dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its unique physical properties, is a preferred catalyst carrier in PDH reactions. Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 affects its morphologies and physical structure, reducing weak acid sites and enhancing catalytic capacity to resist coke. Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, when used as supports for PtSn catalysts, exhibit higher reaction activity and stability, with an optimal cerium content of 0.76 wt% for maximum propene selectivity (96.87%) and performance. This substitution influences the dispersion of metallic particles, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and the interaction of Sn species with the support, stabilizing active sites and promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) shows the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, chosen for its topology without strong acidity. Silanol nests stabilize dispersed ZnO species, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics in PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading and distribution, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties, enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness through structural characteristics such as pore size and shape selectivity, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts for their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity benefit dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is a preferred support for PDH catalysts due to its unique physical properties, including a three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, which enhance its performance. ZSM-5-supported catalysts have a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. The addition of metal promoters, such as zinc, neutralizes acidity and improves reaction selectivity. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio is beneficial for PDH, as it increases the dehydrogenation rate relative to cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture are maintained, and Sn species are tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Its use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. This highlights the significance of MFI zeolites in PDH reactions due to their structural advantages and potential for catalyst innovation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and, despite challenges, pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for their catalytic properties and regeneration. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures, enable high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 (MFI type) zeolites enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and acidity, improving metallic particle dispersion and Sn species interaction. Optimal Ce content (0.76 wt%) yields high propene selectivity (96.87%) and reaction activity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly S-1 with MFI topology, are dominant due to their ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. Silanol nests in S-1 suppress ZnO aggregation, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on utilizing zeolites with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA, to improve metal species dispersion and stability, leading to enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are favored due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, impacting future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction effectiveness. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading and distribution within the zeolite framework and creating hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer. Zeolites with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas can prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites have unique physical properties that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals could improve selectivity and stability in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity. These structural characteristics stabilize small metal particles, improving catalyst stability and selectivity. Their high thermal stability and mechanical strength mitigate coking, enhancing PDH catalyst performance. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc's addition method influences the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior, offering insights for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. A high L/B ratio, resulting from a high concentration of HNO3 treatment, is beneficial for PDH, as it increases the dehydrogenation rate. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is kinetically favorable. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance, indicating the importance of Lewis acid sites. This understanding could lead to advancements in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based alloys, opening new avenues for PDH catalytic applications. The PtREE incorporation involves co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the synthesis method's effectiveness for advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though synthesis is challenging. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to high propene selectivity, improved catalytic capacity to resist coke, and stabilization of active sites. Cerium substitution affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion and hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This modification also promotes the migration of coke from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species, enhancing catalytic performance. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) or direct synthesis (introducing metal sites during crystallization). MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst performance and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, enhancing catalytic performance. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve stability. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. This implies potential for further optimization of zeolite structures and incorporation of other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective for PDH reactions. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    