Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition affecting the support and metallic phases. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to traditional preparation methods. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in the context of PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are pivotal in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta zeolite followed by Sn incorporation through impregnation. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acids promote cracking. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio is advantageous for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and easier regeneration, though synthesis is challenging. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in creating stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion and improving low-temperature hydrogen adsorption and Sn species interaction. This modification stabilizes active sites, increases Sn species in oxidative states, and promotes coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields high propene selectivity, reaction activity, and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, improving reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, play a crucial role in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, as per Quote 2, which are critical for their effectiveness and future PDH catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species while providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading and distribution, creating hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 exemplify zeolites with unique physical properties enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness. The implications for PDH catalyst design include optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and provide high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn catalyze dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites cause cracking. A high L/B ratio, positively correlated with the dehydrogenation rate, is advantageous for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure: dealumination of parent H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination influences Sn incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of Sn-Beta are preserved, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The incorporation of Sn species changes the acid property, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest that the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation. These findings suggest potential for developing new PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The mesoporous zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of various alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. This highlights the significance of MFI zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y, etc.), despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI and Pt alloy formation enhance catalytic performance. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites strengthens PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation facilitates stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. This modification influences the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. Higher amounts of Sn in oxidative states stabilize active sites, improving reaction activity and stability. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity, promoting coke migration from metal to support. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, suggesting their intrinsic nature may optimize Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, impacting future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 enhances propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on structural characteristics and acidity of zeolite supports for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which enhance stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. The promoter's incorporation method influences the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions. Synthesized through dealumination and Sn incorporation, the L/B ratio is key, with a high ratio favoring PDH. Theoretical calculations confirm the direct pathway for dehydrogenation. Lewis acid sites, not Brnsted, are active for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, offering potential for next-generation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Its use as a support allows for the discovery of various alloy catalysts, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential of this synthesis method for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrated with Pt species, forms an alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and acidity. At 0.76 wt% Ce, the catalyst shows high propene selectivity (96.87%) and optimal activity/stability. Cerium stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. This method improves the interaction between Sn species and support, enhancing hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures and dispersion of metallic particles. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, including high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored as supports for ZnO due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the PDH reaction. The dispersed ZnO species on S-1 are stabilized by silanol nests, suppressing aggregation and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. This highlights the importance of zeolite pore structure and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction efficiency. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing synthesis methods for hierarchical pore structures, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as pore size and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity, stabilize small metal particles and offer high coke tolerance, making them effective for dehydrogenation reactions. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. It has a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Metal promoters, such as zinc, enhance reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in the context of PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in PDH reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of Al-Beta followed by Sn incorporation through impregnation. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acids cause cracking. A high L/B ratio is advantageous for PDH. The Sn-Beta's crystalline structure and pore architecture are preserved during synthesis, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The mesoporous zeolite supports various alloy catalysts, opening new opportunities for catalytic applications. An example is the incorporation of PtREE through co-impregnation, demonstrating the zeolite's potential in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High Al dispersion strengthens PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, modifies its morphologies and textural properties, enhancing metallic particle dispersion and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, improving reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. Optimal cerium content at 0.76 wt% yields high propene selectivity (96.87%) and superior reaction activity. This method reduces weak acid site intensity, facilitating coke migration from metal sites to the support, and is crucial for future PDH catalyst design, particularly for bimetallic PtSn catalysts on Ce-modified ZSM-5 supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, serves as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. MFI and BEA zeolites, due to their topology and pore structure, are effective in dispersing and stabilizing active metal species, suggesting future PDH catalyst design should optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the critical roles of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures. These characteristics facilitate the adsorption and activation of propane, minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, and improve catalytic stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and incorporating other active metals to enhance selectivity and stability. The effectiveness of MFI and BEA zeolites is attributed to their structural properties, such as uniform pore sizes and shape selectivity, which inhibit the formation of coke and other side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, mitigating coking through promoters or structural modifications. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. It offers superior coke accommodation compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Adding metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. The text does not cover BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial for PDH reactions. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acids cause cracking. A high L/B ratio is beneficial for PDH, enhancing dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. Efficient Na-Sn-Beta zeolites offer potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE in the zeolite was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the effectiveness of this synthesis method.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Si-OH and REE species bonding aids atomic dispersion of REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High Al site dispersion strengthens PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, featuring MFI topology, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content achieves 96.87% propene selectivity. Cerium substitution affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, are effective in PDH. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, improving reaction performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH, as their intrinsic nature may induce optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "Silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using MFI or BEA topological zeolites as supports for metal oxides to achieve high dispersion and stability of active species, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) or direct synthesis (introducing metal sites during crystallization). MFI and BEA zeolites, favored for their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, dominate PDH applications, impacting future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the critical roles of structural characteristics and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with special three-dimensional channels, exhibit unique physical properties that enhance PDH reaction effectiveness. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, distribution, and hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity benefit dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Metal promoters, like zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with their addition method impacting the support and metallic phase properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not explore BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high L/B ratio, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, is crucial. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, essential for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Direct pathways are more feasible for dehydrogenation. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation is achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the synthesis method's effectiveness for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "In PDH reactions, metal-zeolite catalysts are synthesized by introducing post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Si-OH groups and REE species bond to create atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the BEA topology in samples. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, and increasing hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This modification stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields high propene selectivity, reaction activity, and stability. These findings suggest that Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for PtSn catalysts can significantly improve PDH reaction outcomes, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics like high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume in MFI and BEA zeolites for future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO in catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications due to their pore structure and acidity, which are crucial for effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, ensuring uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Potential developments include optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles, improving catalyst stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure provides high tolerance to coke deposition, mitigated further by promoters like tin or structural modifications. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, which enhance its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. The promoter's addition method influences the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior. However, the literature lacks information on BEA topological zeolites and their role in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high L/B ratio, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, is crucial. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure: dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn species incorporation. Dealumination efficiency impacts Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al atom removal. Sn atoms fill vacancies post dealumination. Sn-Beta retains its crystalline structure and pore architecture. Sn species in the framework are tetrahedrally coordinated, reducing reducibility. Sn incorporation alters Beta zeolite's acid property, creating Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct pathway dehydrogenation is kinetically favorable. These Na-Sn-Beta zeolites offer potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while also providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation, followed by heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a reference for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. Ce substitution affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, are effective in PDH due to their structural characteristics. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, serves as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species. Interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, like pore structure and acidity, are crucial for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 significantly improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the crucial roles of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 has unique properties. The effectiveness in PDH is attributed to structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, especially MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The limited acidity and uniform pore size distribution of MFI and BEA zeolites are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions, providing high surface area and tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    