Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Metal promoters, like zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with their addition method impacting the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, with single-site Sn atoms substituted in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which facilitate dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation, affecting the L/B ratio, crucial for PDH. High L/B ratios enhance dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta's crystalline structure is maintained post-synthesis, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows optimal PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized with a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its unique structure, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering alloy catalysts with various compositions, expanding catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, albeit with synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, enhancing Pt alloy formation. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, modifies its morphologies and textural properties, enhancing metallic particle dispersion and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, improving reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields high propene selectivity (96.87%) and superior reaction activity. This method reduces weak acid site intensity, facilitating coke migration from metal sites to the support. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites, favored for their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, dominate PDH applications, impacting future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite structure and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits, enhancing catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, exhibits unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. High surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity in MFI and BEA zeolites benefit dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Zinc introduction enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with its incorporation method affecting the final support and metallic phase properties. Zinc-modified ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, with a high L/B ratio favoring PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation, with high HNO3 concentration aiding Al removal. Sn incorporation into the zeolite framework creates Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the versatility of this synthesis method.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for co-catalysts, with emerging interest in pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y, etc.) despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to 96.87% propene selectivity and superior performance. Cerium substitution affects the catalyst's morphologies, textural properties, and dispersion of metallic particles, improving hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures and the interaction between Sn species and the support. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, including high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. Future PDH catalyst design should prioritize structural characteristics and acidity for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites exhibit unique physical properties, enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness through structural characteristics like high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, making them effective for PDH reactions. Their microporous structure and limited acidity enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, attributed to a larger surface area and unique channel structure, is a key advantage. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio is beneficial for PDH, as it enhances the dehydrogenation rate relative to cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, altering the acidity and enhancing PDH performance. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest that direct pathways are more feasible for dehydrogenation, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential of this zeolite in advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter showing promise but facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are effective due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances interaction with PtCe clusters. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI topological zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. Optimal at 0.76 wt% Ce content, this modification influences the zeolite's morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. It stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. This substitution makes promoter effects on metal phase and support acidity more effective, highlighting the role of structural characteristics like high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume in PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good Zn species distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 significantly improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalyst performance. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on these factors for improved efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing new synthesis methods for hierarchical pore structures, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. High surface area and uniform pore size distribution contribute to their effectiveness in dehydrogenation reactions. Tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with zinc's addition method impacting the final properties. The literature lacks details on BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio benefits PDH reactions. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination influences Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. The Sn-Beta structure is well-maintained, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, altering acidity and creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. The direct pathway for dehydrogenation is kinetically favorable, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure. This structure, featuring ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The mesoporous zeolite's support allows for the discovery of various transition metal-based alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity. Optimal at 0.76 wt% Ce content, this modification influences the catalyst's morphologies, textural properties, and dispersion of metallic particles, improving hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures and the interaction of Sn species with the support. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity, promoting coke migration from metal sites to the support, stabilizing active sites, and increasing Sn species in oxidative states. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, as noted in [2].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 enhances propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on these properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, have unique physical properties that enhance PDH reaction effectiveness. The high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, favored for their thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to stabilize active metal particles, are crucial in PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area and uniform pore size, enhance stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure limits acidity, mitigating coking. Tailored properties, like increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, into ZSM-5 can improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity and create new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The method of promoter addition impacts the final properties of the support and metallic phases. However, the role of BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design is not discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in PDH reactions. Synthesized via dealumination and Sn incorporation, the process affects the zeolite's acidity and catalytic performance. Lewis acid sites, not Brnsted, are active for dehydrogenation, with a high L/B ratio enhancing PDH. Na-Sn-Beta catalysts with high Lewis acidity and low B/L ratio show best performance. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its advanced catalyst support properties in PDH reactions. Its unique structure, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and easier regeneration, though synthesis is challenging. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, facilitating alloy production with Pt. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion and improving hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, increasing reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content leads to high propene selectivity and superior performance. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for DHP over mesoporous SBA-15, owing to their intrinsic nature that optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species. Interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity. MFI and BEA zeolites, due to their topology and pore structure, are effective for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn species distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalysts. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on these critical factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, such as Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, favored for their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are crucial in PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size, and limited acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. It has a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3, likely due to its large surface area and channel structure. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, and their incorporation method affects the final properties of the catalyst. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation, with high HNO3 concentration aiding Al removal. The L/B ratio influences the dehydrogenation/cracking rate, with a high ratio favoring PDH. The indirect synthesis creates Lewis acid sites, with Na-Sn-Beta-30 showing optimal performance due to its high Lewis acidity. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. These insights offer potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering various transition metal-based alloy catalysts, including REE-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and, despite challenges, pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for their catalytic properties and regeneration. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding between Si-OH and REE species in MFI zeolites aids atomic dispersion and alloy formation with Pt. BEA topology, as confirmed by XRD, ensures well-crystalline structure. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation advances stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, broadening PDH catalyst scope.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, achieving 96.87% propene selectivity and high reaction activity and stability. This modification influences the catalyst's morphologies, textural properties, and dispersion of metallic particles, enhancing hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures and the interaction of Sn species with the support. The substitution of Ce stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal active sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites to improve reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in enhancing PDH catalytic performance. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the crucial roles of structural characteristics and acidity in the catalytic performance of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. This insight is vital for future developments in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting side reactions. Potential advancements include further optimization of zeolite structures and incorporation of other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, especially MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. High surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity in MFI and BEA zeolites benefit dehydrogenation reactions. Tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to its large surface area and channel character, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate PDH, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio benefits PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation via impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. The Sn species in the zeolite framework become less reducible, altering the acid property and creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest potential for new PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, enhancing catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite supports various alloy catalysts, including PtREE, which is incorporated through co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and either La(NO3)3·6H2O or Y(NO3)3·6H2O, followed by heating. This development opens new opportunities for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species aids in achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. High Al site dispersion strengthens PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a reference for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhance PtSn catalysts in PDH reactions, achieving 96.87% propene selectivity and optimal activity/stability at 0.76 wt% Ce content. This modification affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. Higher Sn species in oxidative states stabilize active sites, improving reaction activity and stability. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity, promoting coke migration from metal to support. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, excel due to their pore geometry, which optimally influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. These three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15, showcasing their intrinsic nature that enhances the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the PDH reaction. S-1 supports ZnO species, stabilizing them through interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on utilizing zeolites with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA, to disperse and stabilize active metal species, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite support characteristics in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading, distribution, and hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer. Zeolites with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas prevent coke deposits, enhancing catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, offers unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future catalyst design may further optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    