Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. It has a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Adding metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are responsible for dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites contribute to cracking reactions. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis acid sites relative to Brnsted acid sites, is beneficial for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of Sn-Beta are maintained post-synthesis, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest that direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible than indirect ones, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite supports various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE into the zeolite involves co-impregnation and heating under specific conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though synthesis challenges persist. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are favored due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to 96.87% propene selectivity. This modification influences the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. Higher Sn species in oxidative states stabilize active sites, improving activity and stability. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity and promotes coke migration from metal to support. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the reaction. S-1 supports ZnO species, stabilizing them through silanol nest interactions, preventing aggregation under reaction conditions, and enhancing catalytic performance. This suggests that supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, such as MFI and BEA, can effectively disperse and stabilize active metal species, leading to improved PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for enhanced activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite supports' structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites are preferred for PDH reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 enhances PDH reactions through unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, improving stability and selectivity, and their limited acidity reduces coking. MFI and BEA zeolites' high surface area and uniform pore size distribution make them ideal for dehydrogenation reactions. Tailoring zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its unique three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and channel character, outperforms γ-Al2O3. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, affecting catalyst properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination impacts Sn incorporation. Sn atoms, tetrahedrally coordinated, reduce the zeolite's reducibility and create Lewis acid sites, crucial for dehydrogenation. A high L/B ratio, favored by Sn-Beta, enhances PDH rates. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These insights offer potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized with a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based ones, offering new opportunities for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter showing promise but facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are advantageous due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances interaction between PtCe clusters and support. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. Ce substitution influences morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, dominate PDH applications due to their structural characteristics. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, utilizing supports like MFI and BEA zeolites with abundant silanol nests.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are preferred due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. This insight guides future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles, enhancing stability and selectivity while tolerating coke deposition. Promoters like tin or structural modifications mitigate coking. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. The promoter's addition method influences the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring BEA topology, are crucial in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which facilitate dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation, creating a high L/B ratio that benefits PDH. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of Sn-Beta are preserved, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, enhancing Lewis acidity. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting direct pathways are more feasible for dehydrogenation. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a reference for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, enhances catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and acidity, improving metallic particle dispersion and interaction with Sn species. Optimal cerium content of 0.76 wt% leads to high propene selectivity, reaction activity, and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH. Future developments may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH over mesoporous SBA-15, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal species dispersion and stability using supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties, enhancing catalytic stability. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area, uniform pore size, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, making them effective for dehydrogenation reactions. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, excels as a support for platinum catalysts in PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, offering superior coke accommodation compared to γ-Al2O3. Metal promoters, such as zinc, enhance selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn catalyze dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio is beneficial for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via a two-step post-synthesis procedure: dealumination of parent H-Beta followed by Sn species incorporation through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal from the zeolite framework. Sn species are tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based ones, through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, opening new avenues for PDH catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts. Pre-transition metals offer specific catalytic properties and easy regeneration, but face synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI integrates with Pt species to form an alloy, enhancing catalyst performance. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe clusters' interaction with the support. Metal-support modulation offers a reference for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, a MFI type, alters its morphologies and textural properties, enhancing the dispersion of metallic particles and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, improving reaction activity and stability. An optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support yields the highest reaction activity, stability, and 96.87% propene selectivity. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states and facilitating coke migration from metal active sites to the support.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis (metal sites introduced during crystallization). MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, impacting PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good Zn species distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 significantly improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the crucial roles of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, distribution, and hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer. Zeolites with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, are effective in PDH reactions due to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing stability and selectivity, and offers high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc's addition method impacts the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior. Note, the literature lacks discussion on BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high L/B ratio is favorable for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis procedure involving dealumination and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination impacts Sn incorporation. Sn species are tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. The direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest potential for new PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE-based catalysts, which are incorporated through co-impregnation followed by heating under O2 and H2. This method opens new avenues for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and, despite challenges, pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for their catalytic properties and regeneration. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through Si-OH bonding, facilitating Pt alloy formation. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity. Optimal at 0.76 wt% Ce content, this modification stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity and improves the catalyst's ability to adsorb hydrogen at low temperatures. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, are effective in PDH due to their structural characteristics. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, such as pore structure and acidity, play a crucial role in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future developments in PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance, potentially utilizing other MFI or BEA topological zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite support characteristics in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties, enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness through high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitates propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size, and limited acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and provide high tolerance to coke deposition. Their microporous structure enhances catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and unique channel characteristics, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Metal promoters, like zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity; their addition method impacts the support and metallic phase properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation techniques. Despite the focus on MFI zeolites, the role of BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design is not discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The PDH reaction occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn in the zeolitic framework. A high L/B ratio, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, is achieved through a two-step synthesis process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. Dealumination with HNO3 facilitates Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. The Sn-Beta zeolite maintains its crystalline structure and pore architecture, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites essential for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting direct pathway dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, which enhance catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite supports various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, offering new opportunities for catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation is achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential of this synthesis method for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species aids in achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support, crucial for catalyst stability and regeneration. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for developing pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhance PtSn catalysts in PDH reactions, achieving high propene selectivity (96.87%) and optimal activity/stability at 0.76 wt% Ce content. This modification affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. Higher Sn species in oxidative states stabilize active sites, improving reaction activity and stability. The substitution of Ce reduces weak acidity, aiding coke migration from metal to support. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) shows the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability via silanol nest interaction, which suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity. MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, like pore structure and acidity, are crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interaction for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading and distribution, create hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future catalyst design could optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and provides high tolerance to coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with zinc's addition method influencing the support and metallic phases. Zinc's incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high L/B ratio, favoring dehydrogenation over cracking, is crucial. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. Dealumination with HNO3 facilitates Al removal, and Sn atoms fill the vacancies. The crystalline structure and pore architecture are preserved, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, reducing reducibility. Sn incorporation alters Beta zeolite's acidity, creating Lewis acid sites, which are active for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible than indirect ones, with open sites more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The mesoporous zeolite's use as a support opens opportunities for discovering various transition metal-based alloy catalysts, including REE-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, excel due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion and alloy formation. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, the substitution of cerium into ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, modifies its morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion and enhancing catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes active sites, promoting higher amounts of Sn species in oxidative states, which improves reaction activity and stability. The optimal cerium content of 0.76 wt% in the support yields the highest reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity of 96.87%. This method reduces weak acidity, facilitating coke migration from metal sites to the support. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, leveraging the structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored for their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the reaction. S-1 supports ZnO species, stabilizing them through interaction with silanol nests, preventing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using zeolites with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA, to disperse and stabilize active metal species, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, as noted in [2], impacting future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 exemplify the effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions, attributed to their structural characteristics. Future developments may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and controlled acidity benefit dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    