Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its role as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, attributed to its large surface area and channel character, is a key advantage. The addition of metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. However, the literature does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate PDH, with a high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. Dealumination efficiency impacts Sn atom incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. Sn-Beta retains its crystalline structure and pore architecture. Sn species, tetrahedrally coordinated, reduce the zeolite's reducibility and create Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are kinetically favorable. These findings suggest new directions for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of various alloy catalysts, expanding catalytic applications. An example of metal incorporation is the co-impregnation of PtREE in the zeolite, demonstrating the synthesis method's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species aids in achieving atomic dispersion, integrating with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, a MFI type, optimally at 0.76 wt%, enhances PDH catalyst performance by modifying morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and interaction with Sn species. This leads to higher reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity (96.87%). Cerium reduces weak acidity, promoting coke migration from metal sites to the support, stabilizing active sites, and increasing Sn species in oxidative states. These structural and performance enhancements suggest Ce-modified ZSM-5 as a promising support for bimetallic PtSn catalysts in future PDH designs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA) and Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH over mesoporous SBA-15, likely due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between S-1's silanol nests and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, enhancing PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal species and zeolite support interaction to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites exhibit unique physical properties, enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness through structural characteristics like pore size and shape selectivity, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their microporous structure and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Their high surface area and uniform pore size distribution provide a high tolerance to coke deposition, mitigating coking through the use of promoters or structural modifications. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, large surface area, and channel characteristics offer advantages over γ-Al2O3. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity. Zinc's addition method influences the support and metallic phase properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to traditional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis than Brnsted acid sites, enhances PDH efficiency. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, impacting PDH performance. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest that direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible than indirect ones, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering alloy catalysts with various compositions, expanding catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form an alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to high propene selectivity, stabilizes active sites, and promotes higher Sn species in oxidative states. This substitution influences the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn-support interaction. The Ce substitution reduces weak acidity, facilitating coke migration from metal to support, and makes promoter effects on metal phase and support acidity more effective. These findings suggest that Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites can significantly improve PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences propane conversion, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using MFI or BEA zeolites with abundant silanol nests to disperse and stabilize active metal species, improving catalytic performance. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, as noted in [2], making them effective and influential for future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and optimal acidity, which significantly boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. These structural characteristics and acidity are pivotal for the catalytic performance of metal-zeolite catalysts in PDH, indicating their importance in future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits, enhancing catalytic stability. Zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 with special three-dimensional channels exhibit unique physical properties, improving selectivity and stability in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which enhance stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions for its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its role as a support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3, attributed to a large surface area and channel structure, is a key performance factor. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation, with high HNO3 concentration aiding Al removal. The L/B ratio affects dehydrogenation/cracking rates, with a high ratio favoring PDH. Sn incorporation changes the zeolite's acidity, creating Lewis acid sites that are active for PDH, unlike Brnsted acids. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized with a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, which boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores, making it an advanced catalyst support. The use of this mesoporous zeolite opens opportunities for discovering various transition metal-based alloy catalysts, including REE-based alloys. PtREE incorporation is achieved through co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and either La(NO3)3·6H2O or Y(NO3)3·6H2O, followed by heating under O2 and H2 flows.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures, enhance high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI, facilitated by Si-OH and REE bonding, integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High dispersion of Al sites strengthens PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a reference for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhance PtSn catalyst performance. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content increases propene selectivity to 96.87%, boosts reaction activity, and stability. This modification affects the zeolite's morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. Higher amounts of Sn in oxidative states stabilize active sites, facilitating coke migration from metal to support, and reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for improved bimetallic PtSn catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, silicalite-1 (S-1), an MFI topology zeolite, supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species. Interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, crucial for high catalytic activity and stability. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on MFI and BEA topologies.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) or direct synthesis (metal sites introduced during crystallization). MFI and BEA zeolites are predominant due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 has unique properties. The effectiveness in PDH reactions is attributed to structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to stabilize small metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which enhance stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure provides a high tolerance to coke deposition. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel system and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, attributed to its large surface area and channel character, is noteworthy. Zinc addition as a promoter improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with its incorporation method affecting the final properties. Zinc's integration into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, leading to distinct catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation, with high HNO3 concentration aiding Al removal. The L/B ratio influences dehydrogenation/cracking rates, with a high ratio favoring PDH. The Sn species, tetrahedrally coordinated in the framework, reduce the zeolite's acidity and create Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, albeit with synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, facilitating alloy production with Pt. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, alters its morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. This enhances the stabilization of active sites and increases Sn species in oxidative states, promoting higher reaction activity and stability in PDH reactions. The optimal cerium content is 0.76 wt%, achieving 96.87% propene selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimally influences catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly impacts PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, serves as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species. Interaction with silanol nests suppresses ZnO aggregation, leading to high catalytic activity. MFI and BEA zeolites, due to their topology and pore structure, are effective for dispersing and stabilizing metal species, crucial for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits, enhancing stability. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Incorporating other active metals could further improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and provide high tolerance to coke deposition. Their microporous structure enhances catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. The addition of metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Lewis acid in Sn-Beta is active for dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid facilitates cracking. A high L/B ratio, positively correlated with the dehydrogenation/cracking rate, benefits PDH reactions. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination influences Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal from the zeolite framework. Sn atoms are tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, becoming less reducible. Sn incorporation alters Beta zeolite's acidity, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct pathway dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect, with open sites more reactive than closed ones. Efficient Na-Sn-Beta zeolites offer potential for advanced PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter showing promise for catalytic properties and regeneration, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are favored for their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for stable, regenerable catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87% at an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%. This modification influences morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. Higher amounts of Sn species in oxidative states stabilize active sites, promoting coke migration from metal to support and reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) shows the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1), an MFI topology zeolite, serves as a support for ZnO, enhancing catalytic performance by stabilizing ZnO species through interaction with silanol nests, preventing aggregation under reaction conditions. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, leveraging supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA (LTA-type) and Pt@ZSM-5 (MFI-type) zeolites exhibit unique physical properties, enhancing PDH reaction effectiveness through high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective in PDH reactions. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Metal promoters, like zinc, enhance reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in PDH reactions. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation, affecting the L/B ratio, crucial for dehydrogenation. Lewis acids, not Brnsted acids, are the active sites for dehydrogenation, with a high L/B ratio favoring the reaction. The indirect synthesis method preserves the crystalline structure, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the synthesis method's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, albeit with synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts, particularly MFI and BEA topological zeolites, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species in MFI zeolites promotes atomic dispersion and alloy formation with Pt. BEA topology, as confirmed by XRD analysis, exhibits well-crystalline structure. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as effective supports for PtSn catalysts. The substitution of cerium into the zeolite framework enhances morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion and catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This modification stabilizes active sites, promoting higher amounts of Sn species in oxidative states, which boosts reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content achieves high propene selectivity and superior reaction performance. Ce substitution reduces weak acidity, facilitating coke migration from metal sites to the support. These findings suggest that incorporating cerium into ZSM-5 supports can significantly improve PDH catalyst performance, guiding future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, suggesting their intrinsic nature optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the reaction. S-1 supports ZnO species, enhancing dispersion and stability via interaction with silanol nests, leading to high catalytic activity. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for PDH catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is a highly efficient PDH catalyst due to its specific surface area, pore volume, structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure well-distributed Zn species. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design. Future developments should focus on these factors for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species while providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 exemplify zeolites with special three-dimensional channels that enhance PDH effectiveness. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc's addition method influences the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which facilitate dehydrogenation. The Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio is beneficial for PDH, as it increases the dehydrogenation rate relative to cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering various alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the method's effectiveness in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), the latter offering specific catalytic properties but facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with their unique pore structure, enable high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation creates stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to 96.87% propene selectivity. Cerium substitution affects the zeolite's morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity and improving catalyst performance. The structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. Silanol nests in S-1 suppress ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, enhancing PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in metal-zeolite catalyst effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are preferred due to their easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of zeolite support characteristics in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique properties enhancing PDH effectiveness. The high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity of these zeolites facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future catalyst design will focus on optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which stabilize small metal particles and provide high tolerance to coke deposition. These properties contribute to improved catalyst stability and selectivity. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    