Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. It has a superior capacity to accommodate coke compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts, attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity and can create new active centers when added to ZSM-5, leading to altered catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in PDH reactions. Synthesized via dealumination and Sn incorporation, the process affects the zeolite's acidity, crucial for catalytic performance. Lewis acids, not Brnsted acids, are active for dehydrogenation, with a high L/B ratio enhancing PDH rates. Na-Sn-Beta catalysts, with high Lewis acidity and low B/L ratios, show optimal PDH performance, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These insights offer potential for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of alloy catalysts, including PtREE, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. The synthesis involves co-impregnation of Pt and REE solutions, followed by heating under O2 and H2 flows.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and regeneration benefits, though synthesis challenges persist. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Atomic dispersion of REE-MFI is achieved through bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species, facilitating alloy production with Pt. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite alters its morphologies and physical structure, reducing weak acid sites and enhancing catalytic capacity against coke. At 0.76 wt% Ce, ZSM-5 supports for PtSn catalysts achieve 96.87% propene selectivity with high activity and stability. This substitution influences the dispersion of metallic particles, improves hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and enhances Sn species-support interaction, stabilizing active sites and promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. The topology without strong acidity benefits the PDH reaction. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on using MFI or BEA zeolites with abundant silanol nests to disperse and stabilize active metal species, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, underscoring the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, are effective in PDH reactions due to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity are advantageous for dehydrogenation reactions, offering high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc's addition method affects the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior. BEA topological zeolites are not discussed in relation to PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio, beneficial for PDH, is achieved through a two-step synthesis: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. Dealumination with HNO3 facilitates Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. Sn-Beta's crystalline structure and pore architecture remain intact post-Sn incorporation, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The incorporation of Sn changes Beta zeolite's acid property, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open Sn sites are kinetically favorable. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Its use as a support for alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, opens new avenues for catalytic applications in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures, enhance active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Si-OH and REE species promote atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High Al site dispersion strengthens PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for stable, regenerable pre-transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding PDH catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. Ce substitution affects morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. MFI and BEA zeolites, characterized by high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, dominate PDH applications due to their structural advantages. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, stabilizing active sites and promoting coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 achieving the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology like MFI and BEA.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform distribution of Zn species. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications because of their structural characteristics and acidity, which are critical for future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction effectiveness. Future developments may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 exhibits unique physical properties, enhancing catalytic stability and selectivity. The implications for PDH catalyst design include optimizing zeolite structures and incorporating other active metals for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high surface area, uniform pore size, and limited acidity, which enhance stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, improving catalyst performance and coke tolerance. Tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, featuring an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions for its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it a suitable support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, linked to a large surface area and unique channel structure, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Zinc addition enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with its incorporation method impacting support and metallic phase properties. Zinc-integrated ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites. The dehydrogenation rate is positively proportional to the L/B ratio, with a high ratio favoring PDH. Synthesized via a two-step post-synthesis procedure involving dealumination and Sn incorporation, the efficiency of dealumination affects Sn atoms incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of Sn-Beta are maintained, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The Lewis acid, not Brnsted acid, is the active site for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, performs best. Theoretical calculations suggest that the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support enables the discovery of various alloy catalysts, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation followed by heating under O2 and H2 flows, demonstrating the synthesis method's effectiveness for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures, enable high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction, making them promising PDH catalysts. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI, facilitated by Si-OH and REE bonding, integrates with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, a MFI type, enhances PDH catalyst performance by altering morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion and hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures. This interaction stabilizes Sn species, improving reaction activity and stability. An optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content yields high propene selectivity (96.87%) and peak reaction activity. Cerium reduces weak acidity, aiding coke migration from metal to support. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for PtSn catalysts, leveraging MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume for enhanced effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences propane conversion, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, are crucial for the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts in PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and improve catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments may optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Promoters like tin or structural modifications mitigate coking, a common issue with zeolites. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH due to its unique three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an ideal support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and specific channel structure, outperforms γ-Al2O3. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting final properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites are responsible for cracking. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis acid sites, enhances PDH efficiency. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of Sn-Beta are maintained post-Sn incorporation. The Lewis acid sites are crucial for PDH, and the Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Its use as a support for alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, opens new avenues for catalytic applications in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures for high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction, are promising PDH catalysts. Atomic dispersed REE-MFI integrates with Pt species to form an alloy, while BEA topology exhibits well-crystalline structure. High Al site dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. The optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content leads to high propene selectivity, improved catalytic capacity to resist coke, and stabilization of active sites. This modification affects the dispersion of metallic particles, adsorption of hydrogen at low temperatures, and interaction of Sn species with the support, promoting higher amounts of Sn in oxidative states. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on bimetallic PtSn catalysts with Ce-modified ZSM-5 supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH catalysts, silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite with MFI topology supports ZnO, enhancing dispersion and stability of ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. S-1's topology without strong acidity benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA, to disperse and stabilize active metal species, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. These structural characteristics and acidity are crucial for the catalytic performance of metal-zeolite catalysts in PDH, guiding future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites for PDH. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 has unique properties enhancing PDH effectiveness. The structural characteristics of these zeolites, such as high surface area and shape selectivity, facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions, guiding future catalyst optimization and metal incorporation for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. These zeolites stabilize small metal particles, improving catalyst stability and selectivity, and their microporous structure limits acidity and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring properties like increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity. The literature does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are crucial in PDH reactions. The Lewis acid sites from Sn atoms facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acids promote cracking. A high L/B ratio enhances dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through dealumination of H-Beta followed by Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering REE and transition metal-based alloy catalysts, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation, followed by heating under O2 and H2 flows.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) employ post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, with the latter offering specific catalytic properties and easier regeneration, though synthesis challenges persist. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are leading PDH catalysts due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, which integrates with Pt to form an alloy. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts interaction between PtCe clusters and support, enhancing catalyst stability and regeneration, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolite, an MFI type, enhances its use as a support for PtSn catalysts in PDH reactions, improving activity and stability. At 0.76 wt% Ce, propene selectivity reaches 96.87%, maximizing reaction activity and stability. Cerium affects the zeolite's morphologies and textural properties, influencing metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. This stabilization of active sites and promotion of Sn species in oxidative states facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity and enhancing catalyst performance. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design should consider Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored as supports for metal oxides like ZnO due to their topology without strong acidity. S-1's silanol nests stabilize dispersed ZnO species, preventing aggregation and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, focusing on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, factors that enhance their performance and suggest avenues for advancing PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, enhancing catalytic stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal loading, developing hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjusting Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as pore size and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Potential developments include further optimization of zeolite structures and incorporation of other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for dehydrogenation catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, making them effective in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Their microporous structure and limited acidity enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for its unique physical properties, including a three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, which make it an effective catalyst carrier. Its large surface area and channel character enable better coke accommodation compared to γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Metal promoters, such as zinc, enhance reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, and their incorporation method influences the final properties. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, with single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate PDH, with a high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio enhancing dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation via impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation, with high HNO3 concentration aiding Al removal. Sn atoms in the zeolite framework create Lewis acid sites, crucial for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while promoting high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE in the mesoporous zeolite was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures, enhance high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High dispersion of Al sites boosts PtCe clusters' interaction with support, and metal-support modulation offers a reference for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, with its unique physical properties, serves as an effective catalyst carrier. Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 affects its morphologies and physical structure, reducing weak acid sites and enhancing catalytic capacity to resist coke. Ce-modified ZSM-5 supports for PtSn catalysts boost reaction activity and stability, with 0.76 wt% Ce achieving 96.87% propene selectivity and optimal performance. This substitution influences the dispersion of metallic particles, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction, stabilizing active sites and promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states. The optimal Ce content ensures the highest reaction activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, particularly S-1 with MFI topology, are favored as supports for ZnO due to their ability to disperse and stabilize metal species. Silanol nests in S-1 suppress ZnO aggregation, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal-zeolite interactions for improved performance, leveraging the structural benefits of MFI and BEA topologies.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH effectiveness and future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored for PDH catalysts due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing stability and selectivity. High surface area and uniform pore size distribution, coupled with limited acidity, benefit dehydrogenation reactions. Promoters like tin and structural modifications can mitigate coking. Tailored zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. The promoter's addition method influences the final properties of the support and metallic phases, creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, with single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites. The dehydrogenation rate is proportional to the L/B ratio, favoring high ratios. Synthesized via dealumination of Al-Beta and Sn incorporation, the efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. Sn-Beta maintains its crystalline structure and pore architecture, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports not only REE-based but also other transition metal-based alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities for catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the synthesis method's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "In PDH reactions, metal-zeolite catalysts are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are favored for their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species in MFI zeolites promotes atomic dispersion and alloy formation with Pt. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe clusters' interaction with the support. Metal-support modulation offers a strategy for stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution into ZSM-5 zeolite, a MFI type, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, catalytic hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and interaction with Sn species. Optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content yields high propene selectivity, reaction activity, and stability. This method stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal to support, reducing weak acidity. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, leveraging MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests, suppressing aggregation under reaction conditions. This leads to excellent PDH catalytic performance. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, like MFI and BEA, for dispersing and stabilizing active metal species, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good distribution of Zn species. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 significantly improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the crucial roles of structural characteristics and acidity in the catalytic performance of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. This insight is vital for future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH efficiency. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and enhance stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA types, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The limited acidity and uniform pore size distribution of MFI and BEA zeolites are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions, offering high surface area and tolerance to coke deposition. Promoters like tin or structural modifications can mitigate coking. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, for improved stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    