Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Synthesis methods, structural characteristics, and performance factors of metal-zeolite catalysts, with emphasis on MFI and BEA zeolites, for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity compared to γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, such as zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. The method of promoter addition influences the final properties of the support and metallic phases, with zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creating new active centers and altering catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites cause cracking. A high L/B ratio, indicative of more Lewis acid sites, enhances PDH efficiency. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation via impregnation. Dealumination efficiency is crucial for subsequent Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. The crystalline structure and pore architecture are preserved post-Sn incorporation, with Sn species tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. Sn incorporation alters the acidity, creating Lewis acid sites crucial for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta zeolites with high Lewis acidity and low B/L ratio show optimal PDH performance. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible. These findings suggest potential for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, which boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure, featuring ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores, supports the discovery of not only REE-based but also other transition metal-based alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloy. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe clusters' interaction with support, and metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity, stability, and propene selectivity up to 96.87%. This modification influences the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve PDH reaction performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, as noted in quote [2]. This highlights their effectiveness and guides future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good Zn species distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 significantly improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and enhance catalytic stability. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, exemplify the effectiveness of zeolites in PDH reactions, attributed to their structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. These zeolites stabilize small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure limits acidity, beneficial for dehydrogenation, and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel structure and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. It accommodates coke better than γ-Al2O3 supported catalysts, likely due to its larger surface area and channel characteristics. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity; their addition method influences the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites, which are crucial for dehydrogenation. The synthesis involves dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. A high L/B ratio, enhanced by efficient dealumination, benefits PDH, with Lewis acid sites being more active than Brnsted acid sites. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, shows the best PDH performance, offering potential for new catalysts in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while promoting high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation was achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, demonstrating the potential for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), with the latter showing promise but facing synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are favored for their pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion and alloy formation. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, the substitution of cerium into ZSM-5 zeolite, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances the catalyst's performance by affecting morphologies and physical structure, reducing weak acid sites, and increasing coke resistance. Cerium-modified ZSM-5 supports for PtSn catalysts boost reaction activity and stability, with an optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content achieving 96.87% propene selectivity. This substitution influences the dispersion of metallic particles, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction, stabilizing active sites and promoting Sn species in oxidative states. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH applications. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, improving reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior for DHP, suggesting their intrinsic nature may optimize Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like silicalite-1 (S-1), are favored due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the reaction. S-1 supports ZnO species, stabilizing them through interaction with silanol nests, preventing aggregation under reaction conditions. This results in high catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports, focusing on MFI and BEA topologies for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH. Future catalyst design should focus on these properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reaction efficiency. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits and enhance catalytic stability. Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 zeolites, with unique physical properties, exemplify the effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions, attributed to their structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, which are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and provides high tolerance to coke deposition, crucial for catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and unique channel structure, outperforms γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, enhances reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties. Zinc introduction into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods. However, the role of BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design is not discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are significant in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. A high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio, beneficial for PDH, is achieved through a two-step synthesis: dealumination of H-Beta and Sn incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al removal, creating lattice defects for Sn incorporation. Sn-Beta's crystalline structure and pore architecture are preserved, with Sn tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, reducing its reducibility. Sn incorporation changes Beta zeolite's acid property, creating Lewis acid sites, which are active for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Direct pathway dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized with a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, comprising ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation through co-impregnation demonstrates the potential for advanced catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species enable atomic dispersed REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "In PDH reactions, Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal 0.76 wt% Ce content, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts, enhancing reaction activity and stability. This modification influences the supports' morphologies and textural properties, improving metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species-support interaction. The substitution of Ce stabilizes active sites, promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states, facilitating coke migration from metal active sites to the support, and reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA topological zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their effectiveness in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites for bimetallic PtSn catalysts to improve reaction performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences propane conversion, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI type) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA type), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. Silanol nests in S-1 suppress ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, enhancing catalytic performance. MFI and BEA zeolites, without strong acidity, are beneficial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions for improved PDH catalytic performance, leveraging the structural characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites lead due to easy synthesis, adjustable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5 has unique properties, enhancing catalytic stability and selectivity. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as pore size and shape selectivity, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke formation and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, stabilize small metal particles and offer high tolerance to coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts is attributed to its large surface area and channel characteristics. Incorporating metal promoters, like zinc, improves reaction selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with the method of addition impacting the final properties of the support and metallic phases.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are key in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cracking. A high Lewis/Brnsted (L/B) acid ratio is optimal for PDH. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation via impregnation. Dealumination efficiency is crucial for subsequent Sn incorporation. Sn atoms are tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework, creating Lewis acid sites that enhance catalytic performance. Theoretical calculations suggest a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. Na-Sn-Beta zeolites with high Lewis acidity and low B/L ratios show the best PDH performance, offering potential for next-generation PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure and enhanced catalytic performance in PDH reactions. Its ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores facilitate reactant and product diffusion, while providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This supports the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. The incorporation of PtREE into the zeolite, achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating, exemplifies the method's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, with unique pore structures for high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction, are promising. Bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt for alloy formation. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, with an optimal Ce content of 0.76 wt%, serve as supports for PtSn catalysts in PDH reactions, enhancing activity and stability. This modification influences morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion, hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures, and Sn species interaction. Higher amounts of Sn in oxidative states stabilize active sites, improving reaction activity and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites, characterized by high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume, dominate PDH applications due to their structural characteristics. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from incorporating Ce into ZSM-5 zeolites to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes the catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like silicalite-1 (S-1), are preferred supports for metal oxides due to their topology without strong acidity, which benefits the PDH reaction. S-1's silanol nests stabilize dispersed ZnO species, suppressing aggregation and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topology, such as MFI and BEA, to improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, adjustable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for catalyst effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in zeolite supports for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH efficiency. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, exhibit unique physical properties that enhance PDH reaction effectiveness. Their high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to stabilize small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure limits acidity, beneficial for dehydrogenation, and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolites with increased thermal stability and reduced acidity could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, making it an effective catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel structure. Metal promoters, like zinc, enhance reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity. Zinc's incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior compared to conventional preparation methods. The promoter's addition method influences the support and metallic phases' final properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions. The Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn facilitate dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites cause cracking. A high L/B ratio, positively correlated with the dehydrogenation/cracking rate, benefits PDH reactions. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized through a two-step post-synthesis process: dealumination of parent H-Beta followed by Sn species incorporation. The efficiency of dealumination affects Sn incorporation. High HNO3 concentration aids Al atom removal, creating lattice defects for Sn atom incorporation. The Sn species in the zeolite framework become less reducible, changing the acid property and creating Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation is more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and increasing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's support allows for the discovery of alloy catalysts, including REE-based and transition metal-based alloys, expanding catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation is achieved through co-impregnation and subsequent heating under O2 and H2, contributing to the catalyst's effectiveness in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y), despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites are promising due to their pore structure, enhancing active site dispersion and metal-support interaction. Bonding forces between Si-OH and REE species facilitate atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in Beta samples. High Al site dispersion strengthens PtCe cluster-support interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH catalyst potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI topological zeolite, enhances morphologies and textural properties, affecting metallic particle dispersion and the interaction with Sn species. This modification stabilizes active sites, increases Sn species in oxidative states, and improves the catalyst's ability to adsorb hydrogen at low temperatures. The optimal 0.76 wt% cerium content in the support leads to high propene selectivity, reaction activity, and stability in PDH reactions. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from using Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, improving reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "Silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite, with an MFI topology, serves as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts, effectively dispersing and stabilizing ZnO species via interaction with silanol nests. This suppresses ZnO aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. The S-1 topology, lacking strong acidity, benefits PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing metal-zeolite interactions using supports with abundant silanol nests and suitable topologies, such as MFI and BEA, to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during zeolite formation. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their simple synthesis, tunable acidity, and suitable pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future catalyst advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) is an efficient PDH catalyst due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure good Zn species distribution. The well-adjusted acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 improves propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. For future PDH catalyst design, the structural characteristics and acidity of zeolite supports are crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, has unique physical properties. The effectiveness in PDH reactions is attributed to structural characteristics that facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with high surface area and uniform pore size, stabilize small metal particles, enhancing stability and selectivity. Their microporous structure limits acidity, beneficial for dehydrogenation, and provides high tolerance to coke deposition. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is favored in PDH reactions due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a support for platinum catalysts. Its superior coke accommodation capacity, attributed to a large surface area and unique channel structure, surpasses γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts. Zinc introduction as a promoter improves selectivity by neutralizing acidity, with its addition method impacting support and metallic phase properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. However, the literature does not address BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are effective in PDH reactions due to their Lewis acid sites. The L/B ratio influences the dehydrogenation/cracking rate, with a high ratio favoring PDH. Synthesized via a two-step post-synthesis method involving dealumination and Sn incorporation, the efficiency of dealumination is critical. Sn incorporation changes the zeolite's acidity, creating Lewis acid sites essential for PDH. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, performs best in PDH. Theoretical calculations suggest direct dehydrogenation pathways are more feasible, and open sites are more reactive. These findings suggest new possibilities for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a support opens opportunities for discovering alloy catalysts with various compositions, advancing PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and emerging pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) as co-catalysts, despite synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their unique pore structure, enabling high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding between Si-OH groups and REE species facilitates atomic dispersion in REE-MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. XRD analysis confirms the well-crystalline BEA topology in samples. High dispersion of Al sites enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation offers a method for constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding PDH industrial catalysts' potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI zeolite, enhances PDH catalyst performance by affecting morphologies, textural properties, and acidity, improving metallic particle dispersion and Sn species interaction. Optimal cerium content (0.76 wt%) yields high propene selectivity (96.87%), increased reaction activity, and stability. MFI and BEA zeolites dominate PDH applications due to their high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, stabilizing active sites and promoting higher Sn species in oxidative states.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites dominate due to their pore geometry, which significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 (MFI) exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta (BEA), outperforming mesoporous Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior catalytic supports for PDH, potentially inducing optimal Pt site properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "S-1 zeolite, with an MFI topology, is used as a support for ZnO in PDH catalysts due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This highlights the importance of MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH use postsynthesis (ion exchange, impregnation) and direct synthesis methods. MFI and BEA zeolites are prevalent due to easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, crucial for effectiveness and future PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, promoting uniform Zn distribution. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability. These structural and acidity characteristics of MFI and BEA zeolites are pivotal for PDH catalyst performance, guiding future catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species, providing accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation, crucial for PDH reactions. Future developments may optimize metal loading and distribution, create hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits, enhancing catalytic stability. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, like Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, showcases unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, such as high surface area, pore size, and shape selectivity, which facilitate propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future catalyst design could optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals to improve selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, particularly MFI and BEA, are favored in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. The uniform pore size distribution and limited acidity of MFI and BEA zeolites are beneficial for dehydrogenation reactions, offering high surface area and tolerance to coke deposition. Future PDH catalyst design could benefit from zeolites with tailored properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, leading to more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "ZSM-5 zeolite, with its MFI topology, is favored in PDH catalysts due to its three-dimensional channel and adjustable Si-Al ratio, enhancing its suitability as a catalyst carrier. Its superior coke accommodation capacity over γ-Al2O3 supports is attributed to its large surface area and channel character. Metal promoters, such as zinc, improve reaction selectivity by neutralizing support acidity, with the method of addition influencing the final properties. Zinc incorporation into ZSM-5 creates new active centers, altering catalytic behavior. The text does not discuss BEA topological zeolites in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided.", "English": "Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn atoms in the BEA framework, are pivotal in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Theoretical calculations indicate that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, with a high Lewis-to-Brnsted acid (L/B) ratio favoring dehydrogenation over cracking. Sn-Beta zeolites are synthesized via dealumination of parent H-Beta and Sn incorporation through impregnation. The efficiency of dealumination and Sn incorporation affects the zeolite's structure and acidity, creating Lewis acid sites essential for PDH. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acidity and lowest B/L ratio, excels in PDH, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible. These findings offer insights for developing advanced PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "A mesoporous MFI zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant, has gained attention for its unique structure featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores. This structure boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. The zeolite's use as a support enables the discovery of REE-based and other transition metal alloy catalysts, expanding opportunities in catalytic applications. PtREE incorporation is achieved through co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and either La(NO3)3·6H2O or Y(NO3)3·6H2O, followed by heating under specific conditions. This method and the zeolite's characteristics are pivotal for advancements in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges.\"\n          [2] \"The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 ).\"\n          [3] \"The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy.\"\n          [4] \"The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 ).\"\n          [5] \"The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support.\"\n          [6] \"The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are synthesized using post-transition metals (Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe) and, despite challenges, pre-transition metals (Ce, La, Y) for their catalytic properties and regeneration. Bimetal-siliceous zeolites, notably MFI and BEA topologies, are promising due to their pore structure, which facilitates high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. REE species bond with Si-OH groups for atomic dispersion in MFI, integrating with Pt to form alloys. BEA topology, as confirmed by XRD, shows well-crystalline structure in samples. High Al dispersion enhances PtCe cluster interaction. Metal-support modulation aids in constructing stable, regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, broadening PDH catalyst scope.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"Quotes": "No quotes provided", "English": "Cerium substitution in ZSM-5 zeolites, a type of MFI topological zeolite, enhances its physical properties, affecting morphologies and textural characteristics. This modification reduces weak acid sites, improves coke resistance, and optimizes the dispersion of metallic particles, enhancing hydrogen adsorption at low temperatures and the interaction between Sn species and the support. Using Ce-modified ZSM-5 as a support for PtSn catalysts in PDH reactions boosts activity and stability, with 0.76 wt% Ce yielding 96.87% propene selectivity. Cerium's presence stabilizes active sites, promotes Sn species in oxidative states, and facilitates coke migration from metal sites to the support, reducing weak acidity. MFI and BEA zeolites' high thermal stability, surface area, and pore volume contribute to their dominance in PDH reactions. Future PDH catalyst design may benefit from Ce-modified ZSM-5 zeolites as supports for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, improving reaction activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C6RA04173F"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, MFI and BEA zeolites, like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, outperform mesoporous Pt-SBA-15 due to their three-dimensional microporous structure, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry significantly influences PDH activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "In PDH reactions, S-1 zeolite with MFI topology is used as a support for ZnO due to its ability to disperse and stabilize ZnO species. The interaction between silanol nests of S-1 and ZnO species suppresses aggregation under reaction conditions, leading to excellent PDH catalytic performance. This suggests that MFI and BEA zeolites' structural characteristics, such as pore structure and acidity, play a crucial role in the effectiveness of metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions. Future developments may focus on optimizing the interaction between metal species and zeolite supports to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"Quotes": "[1] \"The synthesis method of metal-zeolite catalysts mainly includes postsynthesis (e.g., ion exchange and impregnation) and direct synthesis (in situ introduce metal sites along with zeolite crystallization).\"\n          [2] \"Among them, the MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH study (Tables 12), which may be attributed to their relatively facile synthesis procedure, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size.\"", "English": "Metal-zeolite catalysts for PDH reactions are synthesized via postsynthesis methods like ion exchange and impregnation, or direct synthesis introducing metal sites during crystallization. MFI and BEA zeolites lead in PDH due to their easy synthesis, tunable acidity, and moderate pore size, as noted in quote [2].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_2"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (MFI topology) excels in PDH due to its high specific surface area, large pore volume, well-defined structure, and sparse Al sites, which ensure uniform distribution of Zn species. The acidity of high-silica HZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity and dehydrogenation stability, highlighting the importance of structural characteristics and acidity in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"Quotes": "", "English": "MFI and BEA zeolites dominate in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions due to their high thermal and hydrothermal stability, large surface area, and well-defined pore structures that accommodate metal species and provide accessible active sites. Their uniform pore sizes minimize diffusion limitations and coke formation. Future PDH catalyst design may optimize metal loading and distribution, develop hierarchical pore structures for improved mass transfer, and adjust Si/Al ratios to prevent coke deposits. Pt embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels, such as Pt@KA and Pt@ZSM-5, exhibits unique physical properties. The effectiveness of these zeolites in PDH reactions is attributed to their structural characteristics, facilitating propane adsorption and activation while inhibiting coke and side reactions. Future developments aim to optimize zeolite structures and incorporate other active metals for improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"Quotes": "No relevant quotes provided.", "English": "Zeolites, due to their high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain dispersion of active metal particles, are favored as supports for PDH catalysts. MFI and BEA zeolites, with their high surface area, uniform pore size distribution, and limited acidity, are particularly effective. Their microporous structure stabilizes small metal particles and offers high tolerance to coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Tailoring zeolite properties, such as increased thermal stability and reduced acidity, could lead to more stable and selective PDH catalysts in the future.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    