Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content, up to 3-7%, the catalytic sites become more active, reducing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, which increases ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the formation of the inactive NiNb2O6 phase leads to a decrease in catalytic activity. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb due to the reduction in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. However, all catalysts experience a continuous decrease in activity over time, attributed to the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful, highlighting the challenges in maintaining catalytic efficiency over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts' selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility. At Nb content >5 at.%, the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, improving selectivity but reducing activity. High Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts catalyst properties, suggesting optimization potential. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. The substitution of niobium into the NiO lattice decreases unselective oxygen radicals, boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely affects ethylene selectivity. Less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the oxygen species' role in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and it is unclear whether this dependence is practically important. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), reducing activation energy and altering oxygen species. Doping with niobium eliminates electrophilic active oxygen, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to selective nucleophilic oxygen species on the surface. Challenges arise from the non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction network, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, inhibits crystallization, and reaches a solubility limit, affecting grain size and lattice constant. The substitution process, leading to charge imbalance, enhances acidity at optimal Nb/Ni ratios, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, acting as an electron donor that reduces p+ concentration and excess oxygen, crucial for ethene selectivity. O2-TPD confirms Nb's role in eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active sites. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further catalyst optimization. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's role in modifying the reduction characteristics of the materials. This highlights the challenge in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. Niobium's ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties enable it to substitute nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution that decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, thus lowering unselective oxygen species. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as observed in NiNb with 90% selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, and less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can be useful in prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems presents challenges due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium doping in NiO catalysts enhances ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. This indicates an upper limit to Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, and modifies properties through charge imbalance. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. At low Nb content (up to 3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb due to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. The efficiency of the catalysts is related to the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance the redox capabilities and selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). By limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing its reducibility, niobium dopants create less active but more selective catalysts. The geometric effect of the Nb-rich phase, covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO, is confirmed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. At optimal Nb content of 3-4 at.%, the catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly enhances ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction properties. This highlights the challenge in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental outcomes in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Interaction with niobium reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the system's behavior becomes complex. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. The smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and it is unclear whether this dependence is practically important. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems is challenging due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's substitution for nickel in the lattice causes contraction and inhibits crystallization, affecting grain size. The charge imbalance from different cation valencies modifies mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and improving ethene selectivity. It consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The best yields are observed at 15% Nb due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above this, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming an inactive mixed oxide. Long-term stability studies show systematic deactivation, attributed to the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility. At Nb content >5 at.%, catalysts are less active but more selective, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation, while 34 at.% Nb offers high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further optimization. Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. This is evidenced by the TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst, which shows two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's effect on the materials' reduction characteristics. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges in understanding these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties, form two structural phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor for NiNb2O6 compound. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the consistency of theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO being more selective for ethane conversion. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, supporting the role of dopant valence in controlling oxygen species and ethylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, along with the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies based on its environment, affects the reactivity and chemical properties of the dopant. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, influencing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, the presence of oxygen in the gas phase complicates the system's behavior. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between NiO and niobium oxides, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and the formation of nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations diverge due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, posing challenges in studying these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with increasing Nb content, up to a maximum Nb/Ni ratio, limiting Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain size, but at high loadings, NiO crystallization increases. Substitution of Ni2+ with Nb5+ causes charge imbalance, altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Reduced p+ concentration from Nb incorporation limits surface excess oxygen, affecting ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane over-oxidation and favoring ethene production. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, making the catalytic sites more active but less numerous, thus initially decreasing ethane conversion but increasing ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Long-term stability studies show continuous deactivation, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, reducing oxygen dissociation sites and increasing selective O2 species. At Nb content >5 at.%, catalyst deactivation occurs due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a slight decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Bridging theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher valence dopants, like niobium, increase initial selectivity to ethylene. Less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high valence dopants leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. Nb's oxidation state in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base due to unused electrons, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity through more defects. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. High- and low-valence dopant distinctions observed in calculations are also seen experimentally. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. Computation models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition. To bridge models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with catalyst oxygen participation. Oxygen replenishment differs between NiO and niobium oxides, affecting surface oxygen species and product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. NiONb bonds form, peaking acidity at Ni0.85Nb0.15, correlating with maximum Nb5+ solubility. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain size, and modifies properties through charge imbalance. Excess oxygen on NiO surfaces inversely affects ethene selectivity, minimized by niobium's electron donation, reducing p+ concentration. O2-TPD confirms Nb's role in eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity. Selectivity to ethylene increases, but conversion decreases. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts show continuous activity decrease due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is linked to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming inactive NiNb2O6. Long-term catalytic properties reveal slow but systematic deactivation, attributed to continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance the redox properties and selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). By limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility, niobium dopants create less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase selectively covers unselective active oxygen species on NiO, improving selectivity. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to restructuring under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods significantly impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further optimization. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations remains challenging due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). They increase ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts shows two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical prediction accuracy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and multifunctional properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases unselective oxygen radicals, boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as niobium fills vacancies and substitutes nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution. This process reduces non-stoichiometric oxygen, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. High valence dopants create less mobile oxygen species, more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and selective ethane conversion supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides, which can vary depending on its environment, contribute to the complexity of the system. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, affecting the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hindering oxidation. However, the presence of oxygen in the gas phase complicates the system. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and uncertainties in experimental methods make computational models approximate. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with catalyst oxygen participation. Surface oxygen replenishment differs between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium reduces active sites, making diffusion the fast step and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. The substitution process, leading to charge imbalance, modifies mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and improving ethene selectivity. O2-TPD confirms Nb's role in eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (up to 7%), the active sites become more active, boosting ethylene selectivity, though fewer in number, leading to decreased ethane conversion. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, eliminating active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. The amorphous phase prevents sintering, enhancing activity, but reacts with NiO above 15% Nb, forming inactive NiNb2O6. Long-term studies reveal systematic deactivation, attributed to continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase stability at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' performance for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At optimal Nb content (3-4 at.%), the catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. The Nb-rich phase limits NiO crystallite size, inhibits reducibility, and covers unselective active oxygen species, improving selectivity. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to restructuration under ODH conditions. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly boost ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% reduction in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction properties. This highlights the complexity in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. Niobium cations substitute nickel atoms, decreasing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, which lowers unselective oxygen species and boosts ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, attributed to less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb prefers the +5 oxidation state in sufficient oxygen, acting as a strong Lewis base when substituting divalent cations like Ni. This increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss over time. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity due to more defects. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of detailed experimental methods. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly affect NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), reducing activation energy and altering oxygen species. Doping changes the surface oxygen, leading to selective ethylene production. Challenges arise from the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Nb improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with Nb incorporation, limiting Nb5+ dissolution. NiONb bond formation correlates with acidity, peaking at specific Nb/Ni ratios. Nb reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species. This suppression of total ethane oxidation to CO2 boosts selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    