Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The optimal 15% Nb content boosts yields by decreasing active phase particle size and preventing sintering. Over time, all catalysts show a monotonous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' redox properties and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly enhances ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, via interaction with cationic vacancies. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity due to the mitigation of strong oxidizing oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The positive charge in the NiO lattice, proportional to dopant valence, correlates with lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over CO2. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs ethane ODH on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Studying these systems is challenging due to complex reaction networks and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a maximum Nb5+ cation dissolution limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes and consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing ethene selectivity by suppressing ethane's total oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content, the active sites become more active but less numerous, reducing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing the active phase content. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb due to reduced particle size and prevention of sintering. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences catalytic efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' redox capabilities and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The presence of niobium limits NiO crystallite size and reduces its reducibility, leading to less active but more selective catalysts. A Nb-rich phase covering unselective NiO sites improves selectivity, as observed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. However, high Nb loadings (>5 at.%) cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties, suggesting further optimization can enhance NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations must be reconciled to understand these complex systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium doping in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly boosts ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% reduction in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two distinct phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high-valence dopants reduces oxygen species, further boosting ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, notably Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability, influence catalytic activity in NiO for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. Nb dopants act as strong Lewis bases, potentially hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with smaller particles in doped catalysts enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of detailed experimental methods. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments, but uncertainties remain, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, whereas niobium doping reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step. This results in a surface rich in nucleophilic oxygen, selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane ODH reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs due to niobium incorporation, with a maximum Nb/Ni ratio indicating solubility limits. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface. Excess oxygen inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation and enhancing ethylene selectivity. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion and selectivity to ethylene increase, attributed to modified active sites. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing catalytic activity. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 formation and reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. The amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering, improving efficiency, but regeneration attempts failed. These findings highlight the complex interplay between theoretical predictions and experimental challenges in catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance the redox properties and selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). By limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing NiO reducibility, niobium dopants create less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase selectively covers unselective active oxygen species on NiO, as observed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. At optimal Nb content of 3-4 at.%, catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO via niobium ions correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. Non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, supporting the findings on niobium's beneficial effects on ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. Nb prefers the +5 oxidation state if enough oxygen is available, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the system's behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and the kinetics of Nb segregation can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can be useful in prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces activation energy and alters the oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen that causes total ethane oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but niobium changes the oxygen replenishment route, leading to different oxygen species and product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen, while niobium reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and promoting nucleophilic oxygen, selective for ethylene production. Studying these effects is challenging due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Its incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, with a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high loadings, NiO crystallization increases. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes in NiO, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and enhancing selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, eliminating active Ospecies. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences efficiency, with optimal activity at 15% Nb due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive mixed oxide phase forms, leading to systematic deactivation over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH improvement. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's role in modifying the catalyst's reduction characteristics. This highlights the complexity in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, supporting the role of high valence dopants in improving ethylene yield. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice, due to high valence dopants, reduces oxygen species and increases ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs between NiO and niobium oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step. This results in a surface rich in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems is challenging due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes in NiO. O2-TPD shows niobium eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation to CO2 and favoring ethene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (up to 7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, which increases ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The best yields are seen at 15% Nb, where the amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering and reduces over-stoichiometry. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, challenging theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts' redox properties and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO (quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (quote 4). Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation significantly modifies structural and catalytic properties, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's effect on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, form two structural phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the consistency of theoretical predictions with experimental results.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution [3]. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity [4]. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity [5]. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, indicating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO contributes to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion. This results in a surface rich in nucleophilic oxygen species, favoring ethane conversion to ethylene. Challenges in studying these systems arise from non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity by improving nickel dispersion and facilitating CH bond activation. Niobium incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, inhibits crystallization, and reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The best yields are observed at 15% Nb, due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above this, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming an inactive mixed oxide. Long-term stability studies show systematic deactivation, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by modifying redox properties, limiting NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, with the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50%, with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich, distorted phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, indicating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb prefers the +5 oxidation state in ample oxygen, acting as a strong Lewis base when substituting divalent cations like Ni, which affects surface oxygen binding and hinders oxidation. The behavior of Nb-doped NiO becomes complex in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, with Nb potentially forming oxide clusters on the surface. The kinetics of Nb segregation can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts over time. Catalyst preparation methods critically influence performance, with qualitative differences observed between preparations. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations, aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments, with interactions between Lewis acids and bases explaining surface chemistry. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising, with much left to be explored.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over CO2. The reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen levels, while niobium doping reduces these sites, promoting diffusion and the formation of nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Theoretical predictions struggle to match experimental observations due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. Niobium substitution for nickel leads to a charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, related to NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane total oxidation and enhancing ethene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, making the catalytic sites more active but less numerous, thus reducing ethane conversion but increasing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. The thermal decomposition of oxalate ions from the niobium precursor also influences catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation, while the most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly modifies structural and catalytic properties, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenges in correlating theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two distinct phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution that reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen species, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity [3,4]. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%) [5]. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective, converting ethane to ethylene [7]. The correlation between dopant valence and ethylene selectivity is supported by the extra positive charge in the NiO lattice, leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary depending on its immediate environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters formed on the surface are not well understood, and the kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments, with trends in the ability of doped oxides to break the CH bond and in reducibility matching observations. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, fragmented, and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering the behavior of NiO catalysts. Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and changes the oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. In NiO, oxygen replenishment occurs through rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation, leading to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations. Niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites for dissociation and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing the lattice constant. An upper limit to Nb5+ dissolution is observed, with niobium inhibiting crystallization at lower loadings. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD confirms niobium's role in eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    