Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the ethane conversion rate and selectivity to ethylene increase, attributed to modified active sites. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb, due to decreased active phase particle size and prevention of sintering. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, highlighting niobium's role in modifying the reduction characteristics of the materials. This observation underscores the challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental outcomes in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the consistency of theoretical predictions with experimental results.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. Niobium's ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties enable it to substitute nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution that decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution reduces unselective oxygen species, boosting ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely affecting ethylene selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the oxygen species' role in ethane activation. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss over time. Preparation methods significantly impact catalyst performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. The lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation to CO2. The reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, affecting lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. It inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, and modifies properties through charge imbalance due to valency differences. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Nb ions lower p+ concentration, reducing excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and promoting selective ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, thus increasing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields optimal results due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to deactivation. Catalyst regeneration attempts were unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse stable forms and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further catalyst optimization. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Interaction with cationic vacancies in NiO yields two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated, forming a NiNb solid solution, and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This defect reduction correlates with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely affecting ethylene selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. A clear correlation exists between non-stoichiometric oxygen and selective ethane conversion, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, the Nb dopant increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain activity loss over time. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences between preparations. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Due to uncertainties, computations should mainly provide qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations diverge due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. This substitution, due to similar ionic radii, leads to charge imbalance and property modification in mixed NiNbO oxides. Niobium inhibits NiO crystallization, initially reducing grain sizes, but at high loadings, segregation promotes larger crystals. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and improving ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium enhances CH bond activation and selectively converts ethane to ethene, suppressing total oxidation. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the intrinsic rate of ethane conversion and apparent activation energy decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts show decreased activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry in NiO, eliminating active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions, is key to the catalysts' efficiency. A small percent of Nb is sufficient to affect the oxygen over-stoichiometry and catalytic properties. The amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering of active phase particles, crucial for optimal activity at 15% Nb. Above this, the inactive mixed oxide phase forms, leading to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and activity. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but enhanced selectivity for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization (Quote 4). Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). They increase ethane reactivity by over 50% at the cost of a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's effect on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution that reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen radicals, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence, as seen in NiNb, correlates with increased initial selectivity to ethylene, with selectivity inversely related to non-stoichiometric oxygen in the catalysts. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. Nb's oxidation state varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The method of catalyst preparation critically influences performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity due to more defects. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. Preparation methods' strong influence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Computational models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with differing oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit to Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium incorporation inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, increasing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, thus decreasing ethane conversion rate while boosting ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Long-term stability studies reveal a monotonous activity decrease due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for catalytic efficiency. Small Nb percentages significantly affect the catalyst, with optimal activity at 15% Nb due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming inactive NiNb2O6. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). The preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the complexity in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental outcomes in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, form two structural phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The positive charge in the NiO lattice increases with dopant valence, reducing oxygen species and increasing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, notably Nb2O5 and NbO, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by altering dopant properties. Nb prefers +5 oxidation state in ample oxygen, acting as a Lewis base when substituting Ni, affecting oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In ODH reactions, the system's behavior becomes complex. Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss over time. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with smaller particles in doped catalysts enhancing activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating surface oxygen reactivity changes. High- and low-valence dopant distinctions observed in calculations align with experimental trends. Preparation method dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Computation models are approximate due to surface characterization limitations. To bridge models and experiments, defect-inclusive calculations and model system experiments are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, with computations explaining surface chemistry and aiding in dopant-oxide pair prospecting. Work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over CO2. Doping changes the oxygen replenishment mechanism, leading to selective nucleophilic oxygen species. Challenges arise due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental results.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, NiO crystallization occurs more freely. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio and decreases for higher Nb content, related to NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, decreasing excess oxygen on the surface, which correlates inversely with ethylene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD experiments show that Nb consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane total oxidation and enhancing selective conversion to ethylene. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, thus increasing ethylene selectivity. For 15% Nb, the Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results due to optimized surface interaction and active phase particle size reduction. Above 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is key to the catalyst's efficiency. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to the prevention of active phase sintering. Challenges arise from the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and the formation of thermodynamically stable NiNb2O6 under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. The presence of niobium limits NiO crystallite size and reduces reducibility, leading to less active but more selective catalysts. A Nb-rich phase covering part of NiO's unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species enhances selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the preparation method can further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% reduction in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich precursor for NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased initial selectivity to ethylene, as niobium's properties enable it to fill vacancies and substitute nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. A clear correlation exists between non-stoichiometric oxygen and selective ethane conversion, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The Nb dopant prefers the +5 oxidation state in the presence of oxygen, acting as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, the behavior becomes complex in the gas phase. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly affect the performance of doped catalysts, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. Computation models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and eliminates electrophilic active oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment varies, affecting product distribution. Niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen species and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species, which are selective for ethylene. Challenges arise due to the complex kinetic parameters and reaction network, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, enhancing CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs due to niobium's smaller ionic radius, affecting the lattice constant. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and improving ethene selectivity. It consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene production. Niobium's electron donation reduces p+ holes, further enhancing ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the catalyst's activity increases, reducing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, attributed to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing activity. Long-term stability studies show a systematic deactivation, linked to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry in NiO. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, induced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions, is crucial for efficiency. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to the prevention of sintering by the amorphous Nb2O5 phase. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations, particularly regarding the catalyst's deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance the redox behavior and selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but increased selectivity for ethane ODH, attributed to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most effective ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges in understanding these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, highlighting niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO, facilitated by niobium, correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely correlating with ethylene selectivity. High valence dopants create less mobile oxygen species, more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. Increasing dopant valence raises the positive charge in the NiO lattice, reducing oxygen species and increasing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO contributes to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Due to uncertainties, computations should be used mainly for qualitative trends and design rules.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and altering oxygen species. Doping eliminates electrophilic oxygen, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. Niobium fills cation vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen and increasing less labile nucleophilic oxygen, which is selective for ethylene. Challenges arise from the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, limiting Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, suppressing total ethane oxidation and promoting selective ethylene conversion by eliminating electrophilic oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. The optimal yield is observed at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The catalysts experience a continuous decrease in activity over time, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species at the surface. The efficiency of the catalysts is related to the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by modifying redox properties and selectivity. At Nb contents above 5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but enhanced selectivity for ethane ODH, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective, active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the reduction characteristics of the materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions. Microscopy confirms the formation of these phases and their role in ethylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO being more selective for ethane conversion. The linear relationship between 16O exchange and C2H6 consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, indicating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base due to unused electrons, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, changing surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between NiO and niobium oxides, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Nb incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. This substitution, due to similar ionic radii, inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. However, at high Nb loadings, NiO crystallization increases. Acidity peaks at a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.15, correlating with maximum Nb solubility and NiONb bond formation. Nb reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping boosts ethene yield by suppressing total ethane oxidation. Niobium's electron-donating nature reduces p+ holes, improving CH bond activation and ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    