Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing catalytic activity. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for catalytic efficiency. The thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further impacts catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by affecting redox properties and selectivity, play a crucial role in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb content >5 at.%, the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO, reducing activity but enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method's impact suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly enhances ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by substituting into the NiO lattice and reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen radicals, boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene. The positive charge increase in the NiO lattice with higher dopant valence reduces oxygen species and enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, changing surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, matches trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. Preparation method dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Lack of methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. Bridging models and experiments requires calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems. Testing predicted trends is necessary. Due to uncertainties, computations provide qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. Exploring interactions between Lewis acids and bases can prospect for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause ethane's total oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations diverge due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit to Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation and favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact the behavior of NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. For Ni0.85Nb0.15O, the best yields are observed due to the prevention of active phase particle sintering. Above 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 is crucial for efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions affecting catalytic properties. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges exist in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental results, particularly due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The inverse correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the system's behavior becomes complex. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment routes differ, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Challenges in studying these systems arise from non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the reconciliation of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high loading, crystallization of NiO occurs more freely. Substitution leads to charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, related to NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which correlates with ethylene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes. O2-TPD experiments show niobium eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, making catalytic sites more active but less numerous, thus increasing ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to deactivation. The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH, affecting the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but enhanced selectivity for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). However, high Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations remains challenging due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly modifies structural and catalytic properties, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's effect on the materials' reduction characteristics. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges in studying these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high-valence dopants reduces oxygen species, further enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary depending on its immediate environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior of the system becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed between different preparations. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs between pure NiO and niobium-doped NiO, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, promoting diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Challenges arise from the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental results.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit to Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, and modifies properties through charge imbalance. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping boosts ethene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing the catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The best yields are observed for Ni0.85Nb0.15O, due to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. The catalysts undergo deactivation over time, attributed to the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility. At Nb content >5 at.%, while activity decreases, selectivity increases, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective NiO oxygen species. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The intricate interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. This modification is attributed to niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics, as evidenced by the distinct reduction peaks in the TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated, retaining its cubic structure, and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their unique properties and oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts. By substituting into the NiO lattice, niobium reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium's electron-donor properties favorably fill vacancies and form a NiNb solid solution. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene, confirmed by the linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption rates. This clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports the enhanced catalytic activity of niobium-doped NiO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary depending on its immediate environment, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation by a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior of the system becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed between different preparations. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in the reactivity of surface oxygen. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, fragmented, and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step, favoring nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Its incorporation into the NiO lattice causes lattice contraction, with a maximum Nb5+ cation dissolution limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, until phase segregation at high Nb loading promotes NiO crystallization. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes, consuming electrophilic oxygen species and enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion rates and activation energy decrease, increasing catalytic sites' activity and selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Long-term stability studies show a gradual deactivation, attributed to the NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, induced by the niobium precursor, is key to catalyst efficiency. The optimal 15% Nb content decreases active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above this, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming an inactive mixed oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly modifies structural and catalytic properties, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, along with the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which can vary based on its environment, affects reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, influencing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. Preparation methods significantly impact catalytic performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. Uncertainties in preparation methods and the lack of atomic-level surface characterization methods make computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Despite uncertainties, computations provide qualitative trends and design rules, showing that doping generally improves catalytic activity. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but the oxygen replenishment route differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The complexity of these catalytic systems presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to non-linear kinetic parameters and reaction network intricacies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation, boosting ethene yield. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, with a maximum Nb5+ dissolution limit, inhibiting crystallization at lower loads but promoting it at higher loads. NiONb bond formation correlates with acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to high ethene selectivity, suppressing total ethane oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect the behavior of NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, impacting the concentration of electrophilic Ospecies. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb, due to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing activity. Over time, catalysts deactivate due to the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and the formation of NiNb2O6, as observed in long-term studies. The efficiency of the catalysts is related to the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their redox properties and ability to limit NiO crystallite size, enhance selectivity in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but increased selectivity, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a slight decrease in ethene selectivity. Experimental observations, such as the TPR profile of NiNb catalysts showing distinct reduction peaks, indicate niobium's impact on reduction characteristics, illustrating the challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with practical outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, form two structural phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the consistency between theoretical predictions and experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene. The linear relationship between surface 16O exchange and C2H6 consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and selective ethane conversion to ethylene supports these findings. Higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of formation of Nb2O5 contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides can vary, affecting reactivity. Nb dopants act as strong Lewis bases, increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions are lacking. To bridge the gap between models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step, favoring nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, inhibits crystallization, and improves nickel dispersion, facilitating CH bond activation. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum Nb5+ solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, Nb suppresses total ethane oxidation, enhancing selective ethene conversion by eliminating electrophilic oxygen species. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity in NiNbO mixed oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. Optimal yields are seen at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. All catalysts show a continuous decrease in activity over time, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry in NiO, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility. At optimal 3-4 at.% Nb content, catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, excessive Nb leads to deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% but slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Bridging theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their various stable forms and oxidation states, form two distinct structural phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor for NiNb2O6 compound. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with niobium exhibiting the highest selectivity. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect the catalytic system's complexity. Nb dopants, acting as strong Lewis bases due to their unused electrons, can increase surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts over time. Preparation methods significantly impact the doped catalysts' performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. The lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces the activation energy and alters the oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen that leads to ethane's total oxidation. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but the oxygen replenishment route differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. The complexity of kinetic parameters and reaction networks presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium doping in NiO catalysts enhances ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, evidenced by a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, until high Nb loading causes phase segregation and larger crystals. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility in NiO, and decreases for higher Nb content. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration and consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    