Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields optimal results due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, eliminating active Ospecies. Catalyst regeneration attempts failed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation, while 34 at.% Nb content yields the most efficient ODH catalysts with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating that niobium affects the reduction characteristics of the materials, which is crucial for understanding their catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO, facilitated by niobium ions, correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, and less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. Increasing dopant valence raises the extra positive charge in the NiO lattice, reducing oxygen species and increasing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and Nb's oxidation state dependency on its environment, affect reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb enhances surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. Oxygen's presence complicates the system, impacting Nb oxide cluster properties and segregation kinetics, which can explain activity loss over time. Preparation methods significantly alter performance, with smaller particles in doped catalysts enhancing activity due to more defects. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating surface oxygen reactivity changes. High- and low-valence dopant distinctions observed in calculations align with experimental trends. Preparation method dependence is surprising, with models used in computations being approximate due to lack of atomic-level surface characterization. To bridge models and experiments, defect-inclusive calculations and model system experiments are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, with computations explaining surface chemistry and prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pairs, albeit with uncertainties. The field is exploratory, with promising results and much work remaining.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems presents challenges due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Its incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, reducing the lattice constant up to a certain Nb/Ni ratio, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, and its substitution for nickel leads to charge imbalance, significantly modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces the p+ hole concentration of NiO, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and enhancing selective ethene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. At low Nb content, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. Over time, all catalysts show a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by modifying redox properties, limiting NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but increased selectivity for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts suggest potential for further catalyst optimization. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as high valence niobium creates less mobile oxygen species that selectively convert ethane to ethylene. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, impacting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially hindering oxidation by increasing surface oxygen binding. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain activity loss in some catalysts. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. The lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Due to uncertainties, computations should focus on qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH on NiO proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. Niobium fills cation vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen species and promoting nucleophilic oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from the complex kinetic parameters and reaction network, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium's smaller ionic radius inhibits crystallization, yielding smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. The substitution process, leading to charge imbalance, significantly alters mixed NiNbO properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation, confirmed by XRD data. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium decreases p+ holes in NiO, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing ethene selectivity by suppressing ethane's total oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The best yields are observed at 15% Nb, due to decreased active phase particle size. Over time, all catalysts deactivate, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for catalytic efficiency. The continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation contribute to the catalysts' deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further optimization. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges in studying these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature NiO, affecting theoretical prediction accuracy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, correlating with less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO, which are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. Non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, supporting the findings that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially hindering oxidation. In the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments. The method of preparation's strong dependence is surprising. Computation models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and eliminates nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to selective nucleophilic oxygen species on niobium-doped NiO. Challenges arise from the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and inhibiting crystallization up to a maximum Nb5+ dissolution. This charge imbalance modifies mixed NiNbO properties, with acidity peaking at specific Nb/Ni ratios. NiONb bonds form, reducing p+ concentration and excess oxygen, correlating with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation to CO2, and enhancing ethene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing selectivity to ethylene. The best yields are observed for Ni0.85Nb0.15O, as the active sites become more active but less numerous. Above 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The stability of the catalysts decreases over time due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions, is crucial for the catalyst's efficiency. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is attributed to the prevention of sintering of active phase particles by the amorphous Nb2O5 phase. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility, leading to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective, active oxygen species of NiO, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods significantly impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further optimization. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's effect on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two distinct phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene, confirming the active role of monitored oxygen species in ethane activation and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of formation of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. Catalyst preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations exist, highlighting the need for further research to bridge the gap between models and experiments. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments, but the work is incomplete and fragmented.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), altering the reaction mechanism and oxygen species. Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. Challenges arise from the complex kinetic parameters and reaction network, making it difficult to reconcile theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, reducing the lattice constant up to a certain Nb/Ni ratio, indicating a maximum Nb5+ cation dissolution limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high loading, crystallization of NiO increases. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD experiments show that niobium eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, indicating more active but fewer catalytic sites, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields optimal results due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 is crucial for efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influencing catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance the redox properties and selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). By limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility, niobium dopants create less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, enhancing the diffusion of selective O2 species. Optimal ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The preparation method impacts structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's role in modifying the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, form two distinct phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH): a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. The interaction of Nb ions with NiO's structural defects enhances ethylene selectivity by reducing these defects, which otherwise promote ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Challenges in studying these systems arise from the unpredictable formation of non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by substituting into the lattice, reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, and decreasing unselective oxygen radicals. This substitution leads to a NiNb solid solution, improving ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence increases ethylene selectivity, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high-valence dopants reduces oxygen species, further enhancing ethylene selectivity. These findings bridge theoretical predictions with experimental observations, highlighting niobium's multifunctional role in catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, impacting reactivity. Nb dopants act as strong Lewis bases, potentially hindering oxidation by increasing surface oxygen binding. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain the loss of activity in some doped catalysts. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by lowering activation energy and altering oxygen species. Doping reduces electrophilic oxygen, favoring ethylene production over ethane's total oxidation. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism governs the reaction on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping slows this process, promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Studying these systems is challenging due to complex reaction networks and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and inhibiting crystallization. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum Nb5+ solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and boosting ethene selectivity. It acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species and suppressing ethane's total oxidation, favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, impacting surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5. Thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influences catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by modifying redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covering unselective NiO oxygen species enhances selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method's impact suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by about 10%. This behavior is evidenced by the TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst, which shows two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The inverse correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating niobium's effectiveness in improving ethane ODH activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially hindering oxidation by a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. In the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can be useful in prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion. This results in abundant nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium doping in NiO catalysts enhances ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. This substitution inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum Nb5+ solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethylene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethylene production. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion rates decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are seen at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing activity. Long-term stability studies show continuous deactivation, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance the selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement. Studying these complex catalytic systems presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly modifies structural and catalytic properties, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's effect on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Low-temperature treated NiO forms non-stoichiometric phases with structural defects, challenging theoretical predictions. The reduction of defects via Nb interaction correlates with high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective, converting ethane to ethylene. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of atomic-level surface characterization methods makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills these vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, leading to nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium enhances nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. It contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, creating smaller grain sizes, until high loading leads to NiO and Nb2O5 segregation and larger crystals. The substitution process, causing charge imbalance, significantly alters mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation and maximum Nb5+ solubility. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium decreases the p+ hole concentration, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene conversion. The removal of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is key to the high ethene selectivity of NiNbO mixed oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    