Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At 3-7% Nb content, the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields the best results due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies show a systematic deactivation, attributed to NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry reduction and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 is key to catalyst efficiency. Thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influences catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covering unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO is confirmed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. At optimal Nb content (3-4 at.%), catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for improved NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides significantly alter structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, boosting ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO correlates with high selectivity due to the formation of electrophilic oxygen species. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise from unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution that reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen species, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb oxides and their oxidation state variability affect the chemical properties of the dopant. Nb acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by lowering activation energy and altering oxygen species. Doping reduces electrophilic oxygen, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. Niobium fills cation vacancies, changing surface oxygen dynamics and product distribution. Challenges in correlating theory with experiments arise due to complex reaction networks and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a maximum Nb5+ cation dissolution limit. This substitution, due to similar ionic radii, inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. However, at high Nb loading, NiO crystallization becomes more prevalent. Acidity peaks at a Ni0.85Nb0.15 ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ hole concentration, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and enhancing selective ethene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb, attributed to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above this, the amorphous Nb2O5 phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming an inactive mixed oxide. Long-term studies show a systematic deactivation, attributed to the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and the formation of the thermodynamically stable NiNb2O6 phase. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing its reducibility. At optimal Nb content (3-4 at.%), catalysts are more selective and stable, as evidenced by the covering of unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species on NiO surfaces. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to restructuring under ODH conditions. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Bridging theoretical predictions with experimental observations remains challenging due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals niobium's effect on reduction characteristics, indicated by distinct peaks at 335 and 510 C. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems remains challenging.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and multifunctional properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. The substitution of Nb cations into the NiO lattice decreases unselective oxygen radicals, boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as evidenced by the inverse relationship between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene production. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene, confirmed by the linear correlation between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption rates. These findings support the role of dopant valence in controlling oxygen species and ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. Preparation methods significantly impact the performance of doped catalysts, with smaller particles in doped catalysts having more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments, with interactions between Lewis acids and bases explaining surface chemistry. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with catalyst oxygen participation. Oxygen replenishment routes differ between NiO and niobium oxides, affecting surface oxygen species and product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and inhibiting crystallization. Acidic properties peak at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and boosting ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species, as confirmed by O2-TPD experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (up to 7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, making the catalytic sites more active but less numerous, and significantly increasing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting further optimization potential. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations remains challenging due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance reactivity by over 50% with a slight decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenge in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their valence and electron-donor properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by substituting into the NiO lattice and reducing non-stoichiometry and unselective oxygen species. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium fills vacancies and substitutes nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution decreases non-stoichiometric oxygen, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species of high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Experimental data confirm the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation and conversion, supporting the correlation between dopant valence and ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes intricate. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. Experiments show that Nb-doped NiO catalysts' performance depends on preparation methods, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations, aligns with experimental trends. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as computations and experiments suggest. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations must be reconciled to fully understand the role of niobium oxides in NiO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with differing oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Its incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a maximum Nb/Ni ratio, indicating solubility limits. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethylene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethylene production. Nonstoichiometric oxygen's elimination by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (up to 7%), ethane conversion and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. The efficiency of these catalysts is linked to the surface interaction between NiO and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is attributed to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering during thermal transformation. Challenges arise from the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and the thermodynamic stability of the NiNb2O6 phase at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties and selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (paraphrased from Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). The preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. This modification affects both structural and catalytic properties. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO. (Quote [3]: 'On the Nb-doped oxides, two distinct structural phases were identified...') (Quote [4]: 'The reduction of structural defects...correlates with the extremely high selectivity...')", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher valence dopants, like niobium, increase initial selectivity to ethylene, correlating with reduced non-stoichiometric oxygen and enhanced ethane conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The extra positive charge from high valence dopants in the NiO lattice reduces oxygen species, boosting ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of Nb2O5 formation contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly influences performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations, aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Computational models are approximate due to the lack of methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Experiments designed to test predicted trends are also essential. Despite uncertainties, computations provide qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory, but promising results indicate much remains to be explored.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems presents challenges due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes contraction and inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. A charge imbalance from niobium substitution modifies mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD experiments show niobium suppresses ethane's total oxidation, favoring selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering active sites, reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry, and increasing ethylene selectivity. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion rates decrease, indicating more active but fewer sites, while selectivity to ethylene rises. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields optimal results due to reduced particle size and prevention of sintering. Over time, all catalysts deactivate, attributed to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides' diverse properties, including stable forms and oxidation states, affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH by influencing redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, significant deactivation occurs at high Nb loadings due to the close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by substituting into the NiO lattice, reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, and decreasing unselective oxygen radicals. This substitution leads to a NiNb solid solution, which is crucial for enhanced ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides, which can vary depending on its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Due to uncertainties, computations should be used mainly for qualitative trends and design rules.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but the replenishment of surface oxygen differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Challenges in studying these systems arise from the non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. Niobium's incorporation inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, until high Nb loading promotes NiO crystallization. Substitution of Ni2+ with Nb5+ causes charge imbalance, altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes in NiO, consuming electrophilic oxygen species and enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, modify NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The best yields are observed at 15% Nb, where the active phase particle size decreases, preventing sintering. Over time, catalysts deactivate due to the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, is critical for catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts catalyst properties, suggesting optimization potential. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Interaction with niobium ions reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases with structural defects in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution that reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen radicals, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high valence dopants reduces oxygen species, further increasing ethylene selectivity. These findings are supported by the linear relationship between the surface rate of 16O exchange and C2H6 consumption, confirming the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb prefers the +5 oxidation state in ample oxygen, acting as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, the presence of gas-phase oxygen complicates the system. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Despite uncertainties, computations provide qualitative trends and design rules, showing that doping generally improves catalytic activity. The work is exploratory but promising, with much left to be done.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and making diffusion the rate-determining step. This results in abundant nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethane-to-ethylene conversion. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems is challenging due to non-linear kinetic parameters and reaction network complexity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, and causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation and promoting selective ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, attributed to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The amorphous Nb2O5 phase's surface interaction with NiO is crucial for efficiency, and the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influences catalytic properties. A small percent of Nb is sufficient for these effects, with the optimal activity observed at 15% Nb.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active for ethane ODH but more selective, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings cause significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO. Microscopy reveals that Nb-doped oxides form distinct phases, and defect reduction via Nb interaction boosts selectivity, as observed in highly active NiNbO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, indicating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, impacting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes intricate. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are understudied, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain activity loss in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity due to more defects. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. Preparation method dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Computational models are approximate due to the lack of atomic-level surface characterization methods. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Predicted trends require specific experimental testing. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. Surface chemistry interactions have been explained, aiding in prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pairs, though results are exploratory and require further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium doping fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Challenges in studying these systems arise from the non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the reconciliation of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, limiting Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD shows niobium suppresses ethane's total oxidation, favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    