Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, modify the active sites in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, reducing the oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, which increases selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The best yields are observed for Ni0.85Nb0.15O, due to reduced active phase particle size. Long-term studies show a continuous decrease in activity, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covering unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO is confirmed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. At optimal Nb content (3-4 at.%), catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further improvement in ethane ODH. Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) significantly enhances ethane reactivity by over 50%, with a minor trade-off in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the complexity in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects correlates with high selectivity, as these defects form strong oxidizing oxygen species leading to ethane's total oxidation. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. Non-stoichiometric oxygen inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, supporting the findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with differing oxygen replenishment routes leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane ODH reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporating niobium into the NiO lattice causes a lattice contraction, with a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating an upper limit to Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, and its substitution for nickel leads to charge imbalance, significantly modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, related to NiONb bond formation, confirmed by XRD data showing maximum solubility for Ni0.85Nb0.15. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, decreasing excess oxygen accommodation, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD experiments show that niobium consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, affecting electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields best results. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences catalytic efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Small Nb percentages prevent sintering, improving activity. However, continuous deactivation over time is attributed to NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry reduction and NiNb2O6 phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts' performance for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties and selectivity. Nb limits NiO crystallite size and reduces reducibility, leading to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts catalyst properties, suggesting optimization potential. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between Nb oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by about 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects correlates with high catalyst selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric phases in NiO, complicating theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as niobium's extra positive charge in the NiO lattice lowers oxygen species. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO selectively convert ethane to ethylene, confirming the active role of oxygen in ethane activation and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and the high energy of formation of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over CO2. The ethane ODH reaction on NiO proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with niobium filling cationic vacancies, reducing active sites for oxygen dissociation, and promoting diffusion. This leads to the formation of nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene. Challenges in studying these systems arise from the complexity of the reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. It inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Niobium substitution for nickel causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, enhancing ethene selectivity by eliminating electrophilic oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. The thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further impacts catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and crystallite size. At Nb content >5 at.%, catalysts are less active but more selective due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). They increase ethane reactivity by over 50% with a slight decrease in ethene selectivity. Experimental evidence, such as the TPR profile of NiNb catalysts showing distinct reduction peaks, indicates niobium's impact on reduction characteristics. Bridging theoretical predictions with these experimental observations presents challenges in understanding complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two distinct phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions. Microscopy and analysis confirm these findings, highlighting the role of niobium in defect reduction and ethylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. Niobium cations substitute nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution, which decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and higher ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO convert ethane more selectively. The inverse relationship between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and Nb's oxidation state, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss over time. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The method of preparation's strong dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Computational models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition. To bridge models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH on both oxides follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations diverge due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks, posing challenges in studying these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's substitution for nickel in the lattice causes a contraction, affecting the lattice constant up to a certain ratio. This substitution also leads to charge imbalance, modifying the mixed NiNbO oxides' properties. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with the formation of NiONb bonds. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, enhancing CH bond activation. It reduces the p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which is inversely related to ethene selectivity. Niobium consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene production. These effects are confirmed by experimental data showing enhanced ethene yields at optimal Nb/Ni ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. The optimal activity is observed at 15% Nb, due to the decrease in active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. The catalysts undergo deactivation over time, attributed to the continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase. The efficiency of the catalysts is related to the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in ethane ODH. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. This substitution decreases unselective oxygen radicals, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, impacting surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in the ability of doped oxides to break the CH bond and in reducibility. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments, which can explain surface chemistry interactions and prospect for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion. This results in nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. It contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, until high loading causes NiO and Nb2O5 segregation and larger crystals. The substitution process, due to different valencies, modifies mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes in NiO. O2-TPD shows niobium eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation to CO2 and favoring ethene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (up to 3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry in NiO, eliminating active Ospecies. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences efficiency, with the optimal activity linked to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with NiO, forming inactive NiNb2O6. The reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation contribute to catalyst deactivation over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, surface area, and selectivity. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics. This highlights the complexity in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO, via niobium interaction, correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as demonstrated by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, and less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces activation energy and alters the oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. The complexity of these systems presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to non-linear kinetic parameters and reaction network intricacies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation by promoting electron transfer. It contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a maximum Nb/Ni ratio, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethylene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the intrinsic rate of ethane conversion and apparent activation energy decrease, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Surface interaction between NiO and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase is crucial for efficiency. Thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influences catalytic properties. Catalysts deactivate over time due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, challenging theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but increased selectivity for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction properties. This highlights the challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their various oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. High valence doped NiO has less mobile oxygen species, which are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain the loss of activity in some doped catalysts. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Lack of methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Experiments designed to test predicted trends are also necessary. Due to uncertainties, computations should provide qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can prospect for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts, although they provide probable behavior. The work on doped oxides is incomplete and exploratory, but promising results indicate much remains to be done.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations. Niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. This indicates a solubility limit for Nb5+ in NiO. Niobium incorporation inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, NiO crystallization increases. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum Nb5+ solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes in NiO and consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (up to 3-7%), the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the formation of the inactive NiNb2O6 phase reduces catalytic activity. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes ethane conversion and ethylene yield. Long-term stability studies reveal a systematic deactivation due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry in NiO, leading to a lack of active Ospecies. The surface interaction between NiO and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase, influenced by the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions, is crucial for catalytic efficiency. The reduction in active phase particle size by Nb2O5 prevents sintering, enhancing activity. However, regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse stable forms and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties and selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but enhanced selectivity for ethane ODH, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium's introduction as a dopant in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation significantly enhances ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, affecting the consistency of theoretical models with experimental results.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The higher the dopant valence, the lower the oxygen species and the higher the ethylene selectivity, supported by the data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. Nb dopants act as strong Lewis bases, potentially hindering oxidation by increasing surface oxygen binding. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss in some catalysts. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. High- and low-valence dopant distinctions observed in calculations are also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. Models used in computations are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation to CO2. The reaction follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. Niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen species and promoting nucleophilic oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Challenges in studying these systems arise from the complexity of kinetic parameters and reaction networks, making it difficult to align theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity by improving nickel dispersion and promoting electron transfer, facilitating CH bond activation. Nb incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. It inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. The substitution process, causing charge imbalance, significantly alters mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Nb reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely affects ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    