Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, indicating more active but fewer catalytic sites, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 phases is crucial for efficiency. Thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further influences catalytic properties. The continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation over time cause deactivation, challenging theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their redox properties and ability to limit NiO crystallite size, make NiO catalysts less active but more selective for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb content >5 at.%, the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric, active oxygen species of NiO, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenge in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor for NiNb2O6. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO correlates with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as seen in NiNb with 90% selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. High valence dopants create less mobile oxygen species, which are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between 16O exchange and C2H6 consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and selective ethane conversion to ethylene supports these findings. Higher dopant valence increases positive charge in the NiO lattice, reducing oxygen species and increasing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary depending on its immediate environment, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation by a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior of the system becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed between different preparations. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in the reactivity of surface oxygen. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments, with trends in the ability of doped oxides to break the CH bond and in reducibility matching the observations. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH on both oxides follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, favoring diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium enhances nickel dispersion and electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. It contracts the NiO lattice, with a maximum Nb5+ dissolution limit, and inhibits crystallization, affecting grain size. Niobium substitution causes charge imbalance, altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Reduced p+ concentration from Nb ions limits surface excess oxygen, impacting ethene selectivity. Niobium donates electrons, reducing NiO's p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. The thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further impacts catalytic properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful, highlighting challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and crystallite size. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while causing a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics. This highlights the challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich precursor for NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO, due to Nb interaction, correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states and properties, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing non-stoichiometry and cationic defects. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases unselective oxygen radicals, boosting ethane ODH. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as niobium fills vacancies and substitutes nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution. This process reduces non-stoichiometry, defects, and unselective oxygen species, improving ethane ODH. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity, and high valence dopants increase positive charge in the NiO lattice, lowering oxygen species and enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters formed on the surface are not well understood, and the kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. The smaller particles in the doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and it is unclear whether this dependence is practically important. The lack of experimental methods to determine the surface morphology and composition makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap between models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems resembling computational models are needed. Experiments specifically designed to test predicted trends are also necessary. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can be useful in prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, fragmented, and exploratory, but the results are promising, and much remains to be done.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between NiO and niobium-doped NiO, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. Niobium fills cation vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen species and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from the complex kinetic parameters and reaction network, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, and modifies acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. NiONb bond formation correlates with acidity, confirmed by XRD data. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species, as evidenced by O2-TPD experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity. Selectivity to ethylene increases, but conversion decreases. Above 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. The amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Long-term deactivation is attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, challenging theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by affecting redox properties, selectivity, and activity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method's impact on NbNiO nanocomposites suggests potential for further catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a slight decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. The reduction of structural defects in NiO, via Nb interaction, correlates with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO contributes to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces the activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but the oxygen replenishment route differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The complexity of these catalytic systems presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to non-linear kinetic parameters and a complex reaction network.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium enhances nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Its incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading due to phase segregation. The substitution process, causing charge imbalance, significantly alters mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with maximum niobium solubility and NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Acting as an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ hole concentration, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and enhancing selective ethylene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences catalytic efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions further affecting properties. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective, active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation, while 34 at.% Nb yields the most efficient ODH catalysts, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. The preparation method impacts structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further improvement. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% at a minor cost of 10% reduced ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides varies with its environment, impacting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain activity loss over time. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The method of preparation's strong influence is surprising. The lack of methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. Bridging models and experiments requires calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems. Testing predicted trends is necessary. Due to uncertainties, computations provide qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and promotes electron transfer, aiding CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a solubility limit. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loadings. Substitution causes charge imbalance, altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD shows Nb suppresses ethane's total oxidation, favoring ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing activity. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound maximizes yields. Long-term stability studies reveal a systematic deactivation, attributed to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, induced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. The amorphous phase prevents sintering, maintaining small active phase particle size. Above 15% Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with NiO, forming the inactive mixed oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance the selectivity of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing its reducibility. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% with a minor decrease in ethene selectivity. Experimental challenges are evident in reconciling theoretical predictions with observations, as niobium's influence on reduction characteristics, indicated by distinct peaks in the TPR profile, complicates the understanding of these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by forming two phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their oxidation states, enhance ethane ODH activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. Niobium cations substitute nickel atoms, forming a NiNb solid solution that decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as high valence doped NiO has less mobile oxygen species. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The higher the dopant valence, the greater the positive charge in the NiO lattice, resulting in lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, which can increase surface oxygen binding and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species, which favor ethane's total oxidation. In the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, niobium doping changes surface oxygen replenishment, leading to selective nucleophilic oxygen species for ethylene production. Challenges arise due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks, complicating the reconciliation of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit to Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, and modifies properties through charge imbalance. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. O2-TPD experiments confirm niobium's role in eliminating electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation and promoting selective ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, indicating modified active sites that are more active but less numerous, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Optimal yields are seen at Ni0.85Nb0.15O, where the amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering and decreases active phase particle size. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, with regeneration attempts failing. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts' redox properties and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). By limiting NiO crystallite size and reducing reducibility, niobium creates less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase selectively covers unselective oxygen species on NiO, as observed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. At optimal 3-4 at.% Nb content, catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich layer. Preparation methods significantly impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further improvement in ethane ODH catalysis. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations must be reconciled to fully understand these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly reducing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor for NiNb2O6 compound. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions. Microscopy confirms the formation of these phases and the reduction of defects, crucial for ethylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The extra positive charge from high valence dopants in the NiO lattice reduces oxygen species, increasing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially hindering oxidation by a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology at an atomic level makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen that causes total ethane oxidation. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene. Challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity while maintaining high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, reducing the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating a maximum Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading due to phase segregation. Substitution leads to charge imbalance, significantly modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD experiments show that niobium eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and enhancing selective ethylene conversion. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to the NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, eliminating active Ospecies. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, induced by oxalate ions, is crucial for efficiency. The amorphous phase prevents sintering, optimizing activity at 15% Nb, but reacts with NiO above this threshold, forming inactive NiNb2O6. Long-term studies show systematic deactivation, attributed to continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase stability at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites show decreased activity but increased selectivity, suggesting the Nb-rich phase covers unselective, active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings cause significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Further improvement in NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH is possible through catalyst optimization. Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% drop in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, demonstrating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated, retaining its cubic structure, and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, as demonstrated by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The inverse correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Nb2O5's high energy of formation and NbO's stability contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, potentially increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. The properties of Nb oxide clusters on the surface are not well understood, and Nb segregation kinetics can explain activity loss over time. Catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating surface oxygen reactivity changes. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experiments. The method of preparation's strong dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Experiments designed to test predicted trends are also necessary. Due to uncertainties, computations should mainly obtain qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The interactions between Lewis acids and bases in surface chemistry have been explained by computations, which can prospect for promising dopant-oxide pair catalysts, providing probable behavior. The work on doped oxides is incomplete and exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes a contraction, with a maximum Nb5+ dissolution limit, and inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. Niobium substitution leads to charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, related to NiONb bond formation. Nb reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    